TO THE JUNE 12TH I
DON'T NEED TO DO THAT, DO I?
>> I JUST DID IT OK.
HELLO EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE JUNE 12 20 25 MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
I AM CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN.
THE TIME 701 P.M. AND WE'LL
BEGIN WITH SOME NOTES ABOUT THE
MEETING FORMAT.
>> REMOTE PARTICIPATION IN THIS
MEETING IS AVAILABLE BY
TELEPHONE OR THROUGH ONLINE
VIDEO CONFERENCING.
>> PLEASE SEE THE MEETING
AGENDA FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
CONTACT INFORMATION INCLUDING
PHONE NUMBERS AND THE WEB LINK
TO REQUEST TO SPEAK IF
LISTENING BY PHONE PRESS STAR
NINE IF YOU ARE VIDEO
CONFERENCING USE THE RAISED
HAND BUTTON WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS PUBLIC
COMMENT IS AVAILABLE IN PERSON
OR BY TELEPHONE DURING A PUBLIC
COMMENT AGENDA ITEM AND DURING
EACH PUBLIC HEARING WE WILL
FIRST CALL ON IN-PERSON
INDIVIDUALS TO ADDRESS THE
BOARD AND THEN FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS FINALLY, HERE'S AN
OVERVIEW OF THE SEQUENCE
OF EVENTS FOR EACH HEARING ON
THE AGENDA.
>> FIRST, THE PLANNING SERVICES
STAFF WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS.
AT THAT POINT THE HEARING WILL
BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENT, THE
COMMISSION WILL MAKE A MOTION
AND DISCUSS THE APPLICATION.
>> FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE APPROPRIATENESS TO
BE GRANTED NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
ROLL CALL MISS THATCHER, WILL
YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
COMMISSIONER CALDERON HERE
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE,
COMMISSIONER FOR IRC HERE,
COMMISSIONER US PRESENT
COMMISSIONER SMITH,
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN HERE FOR A
VERY GOOD THE NEXT SECTION
OF THE MEETING IS THE APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
>> ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT'S AGENDA?
YES, MISS THATCHER, JUST A
POINT OF CLARIFICATION FOR ITEM
F ONE IF ANYONE IS WATCHING IN
TV LAND BY FIVE THREE S SEVENTH
STREET WILL BE POSTPONED TO
NEXT MONTH.
WE WILL HOLD THE PUBLIC HEARING
HOWEVER TONIGHT SINCE IT WAS
ADVERTISED.
THANK YOU.
VERY GOOD.
THANKS FOR THAT CLARIFICATION.
BUT HEARING AND SEEING NO
CHANGES THE AGENDA WILL BE
APPROVED AS PRESENTED NEXT IS
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA TO REQUEST TO
SPEAK IF LISTENING BY PHONE
PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU ARE
VIDEO CONFERENCING, USE THE
RAISE HAND BUT PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE
APPROACHING THE PODIUM.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE PERHAPS IN
THE ZOOME ROOM?
>> OK, VERY GOOD.
>> VERY GOOD.
THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SECTION E
AND WE DO HAVE ONE ITEM TODAY
IN UNFINISHED BUSINESS IT'S E
ONE FIVE TWENTY SIX FIFTH
STREET SO I'LL HAND IT OVER TO
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU POWERPOINT YOU CAN DO
IT.
HERE WE GO.
>> ALL RIGHT SO LAST MONTH WE
WENT THROUGH PART OF THIS
APPLICATION TO CONSTRUCT A
GARAGE
WITH AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT OVERHEAD AND WE
DIDN'T HAVE A QUORUM SO WE
WEREN'T ABLE TO VOTE ON IT.
BUT THE COMMISSIONERS GAVE A
LITTLE BIT OF FEEDBACK ON THAT
AND IN THE MEANTIME, SINCE THEY
ALREADY HAD AN APPLICATION IN,
THE APPLICANTS HAVE NOW ADDED
IN REPLACEMENT OF THE WOOD
SIDING THAT'S ON THE HOUSE
WHICH IS MORE COMPLICATED THAN
IT SOUNDS AND I'LL WALK YOU
THROUGH IT IN A MINUTE.
BUT THERE IS A MEMO THAT'S AN
UPDATE THAT INCLUDES ALL THE
WOOD SIDING INFORMATION IN
FRONT OF THE STAFF REPORT WHICH
INCLUDES ALL OF THE GARAGE
INFORMATION.
>> OH, LET'S SEE.
>> I'M GOING TO WALK THROUGH
THE SLIDES HERE AND THEN WE'LL
SEE HOW I ORGANIZED THIS.
THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S LOVELY.
>> PROBABLY ITALIANATE.
OH, I HAVE TO GO TO LAST MONTH
TO GET THE INFORMATION ON IT.
>> IT WAS FIRST APPEARS IN CITY
DIRECTORIES IN EIGHTEEN NINETY
FOUR BUT IT COULD BE OLDER.
THE OCCUPANT THERE AT THIRTY
FOUR FIFTH STREET WAS WILLIAM
HHG BOYLAN WHO WAS A PAINTER
AND HE LIVED THERE UNTIL 1914
AND HE HAD A WIFE NAMED MARY
PETERS TALL NARROW ONE OVER ONE
WINDOWS ARRANGED SYMMETRICALLY
FLAT BOARD TRIM IN THE FRONT
GABLE AND A WRAPAROUND FRONT
PORCH.
>> I'M REALIZING THAT YOU GUYS
JUST SAW THIS A COUPLE
OF MONTHS AGO FOR A BUNCH
OF OTHER WORK THAT WAS DONE
HERE SO FOR OUR BILL CAWDOR AND
LANA'I IN THE BACK.
>> SO I'M NOT GOING TO GET TOO
MUCH INTO THIS BUT THE HOUSE
HAS HAD VARIOUS MODIFICATIONS
OVER THE YEARS, MOST NOTABLY
FOR US PETITION IS THAT IT USED
TO HAVE ALUMINUM SIDING THAT
GOT TAKEN OFF AND IF YOU LOOK
CLOSELY AT THE WINDOWS YOU'LL
NOTICE THAT A WINDOW TRIM IS A
LITTLE BIT WONKY.
SOME OF IT'S STILL ALUMINUM,
SOME OF IT'S WOOD.
THE CELLS HAVE BEEN CUT OFF.
YOU KNOW, IT LOOKS GREAT FROM A
DISTANCE HERE BUT WHEN YOU'RE
UP CLOSE YOU REALIZE THAT
SOMETHING SORT OF STRANGE IS
GOING ON.
>> LET'S SEE.
SO THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE AS YOU'LL RECALL
EVERYTHING FROM FROM THIS THIS
SECOND FLOOR BUMP OUT AND
BEYOND IS AN ADDITION AND THIS
IS FROM THE NEIGHBORS HOUSE
THAT THE SIDEWALK IN FRONT
OF OUR HOUSE I ONLY INCLUDED IT
TO SHOW THAT YOU WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO SEE THE PROPOSED GARAGE
AT ALL FROM HERE COMPLETELY
BEHIND THE HOUSE.
>> OK, I GUESS I SET THIS UP TO
DO SIDING FIRST.
>> SO LET'S TALK ABOUT SIDING
WALKING AWAY ON THE HOUSE WHEN
THE ADDITION WAS BUILT THIS
WALL SIDING WAS REPLACED AS WAS
EVERYTHING UNDER THE FRONT
PORCH ON THE FRONT AND SIDE AND
I THINK I'VE GOT A CLOSE UP IN
A MINUTE OF OF OF THAT SIDING.
I BELIEVE IT'S WOOD.
>> IT WASN'T INSTALLED IN A WAY
THAT MATCHES VERY WELL UP HERE
IS HISTORIC SIDING AND YOU CAN
SEE THAT THERE'S SOME
DEGRADATION HERE.
I'VE BLOWN IT UP WHEN YOU'RE
INDOORS WHICH I'LL SHOW YOU IN
A MINUTE.
SEE THIS BOARDS COMING OFF.
YOU CAN SEE DAYLIGHT UP HERE
THE FLASHING IS ALL MESSED UP
AND THERE'S A LOT OF THERE'S A
LOT OF EVERYTHING GETTING IN
THERE.
SO THIS IS UNDER THE PORCH.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IS THE THIS IS
THE NEW SIDING.
THEY THEY FINISHED IT WITH
NAILS ON THE OUTSIDE.
I DON'T KNOW WHY BECAUSE THAT'S
NOT ALWAYS IN THE REST OF THE
THE HOUSE ORIGINALLY BUT IT
DOES THAT ALL THE WAY AROUND
THE FRONT
.
I BELIEVE THAT THIS SIDING UP
HERE YOU CAN SEE IT HAS A MUCH
DEEPER SHADOWLINE AND IT'S
NARROWER A LITTLE BIT THAN
WHAT'S DOWN HERE I BELIEVE THAT
THAT IS ORIGINAL WOOD SIDING
OVER THE TOP OF THE PORCH BUT
NOT UNDER THE SIDING IS NOT IN
PERFECT CONDITION.
>> IT NEEDS PAINT, IT NEEDS
SCRAPING BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY
THE APPLICANT THE CONTRACTOR
RATHER WHO WHO'S HERE WITH US
TONIGHT IS CONCERNED THAT WHEN
HE TAKES OFF ALL OF THAT SIDING
TO PUT SHEATHING UNDER NEATH IT
WHICH THERE'S NOT VERY MUCH
OF ON THIS HOUSE AT ALL THAT
HE'S GOING TO LOSE MOST OF THAT
HISTORIC SIDING IF NOT ALL
OF IT.
>> AND NOW I'LL TAKE YOU
THROUGH THE INSIDE ON THE LEFT
YOU SEE LOOKING OUT ONTO THE
PORCH THIS IS WHERE THE WORK
WAS ALREADY DONE.
THEY REPLACED THE SIDING.
THEY PUT SHEATHING ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE STUDS HERE
SOMETHING ANY OTHER SIDING TO
CONTRACTORS NOT CRAZY ABOUT HOW
THEY DID BUT THIS IS HOW THEY
DID THIS WALL ON ONE OF THE
SIDES OF THE HOUSE ON THE FIRST
FLOOR WHERE THERE'S A LITTLE
BUMP OUT THERE IS SHEATHING IN
THE FORM OF OF BOARDS.
>> IT'S JUST BOARDS THAT WERE
STACKED UP NAILED TO THE STUDS
AND THEN THE THE SIDING IS
APPLIED TO THE EXTERIOR
OF THOSE BOARDS.
BUT IT'S JUST ONE LITTLE ROOM
ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
NOW LET'S SEE THIS LOOKS LIKE
WE'RE UPSTAIRS AND THROUGHOUT
THE HOUSE THERE THERE IS A ROW
OF INSULATION BLOWING HOLES
THAT HAVE BEEN FILLED WITH
LITTLE WOOD PLUGS.
UM THAT IF THEY WERE TO BE KEPT
WOULD PROBABLY NEED TO BE
REDONE AND NEED SOME MORE WORK
.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THOSE ARE.
THIS IS JUST THE SIDING YOU'RE
LOOKING AT IN THESE PHOTOS.
>> THERE'S THERE'S THERE'S
NOTHING BETWEEN YOU AND THE
OUTDOORS EXCEPT THIS LAMP
SIDING.
>> HERE'S A COUPLE MORE
PICTURES.
THIS IS THE INTERIOR SHOT
OF WHAT I WAS TRYING TO SHOW
YOU ON TOP OF THAT SIDE OF THE
FRONT PORCH WHERE THERE'S JUST
BOARDS MISSING AND THINGS
OBVIOUSLY WEATHERPROOFING IS A
BIG CONCERN HERE BECAUSE IF
THEY PUT THE SHEETING ON THE
INSIDE THEN THERE'S JUST GOING
TO BE A BIG GAP THERE AND WATER
IS GOING TO GET IN THERE AND
IT'S GOING TO FURTHER DEGRADE.
AND THIS IS JUST THIS IS ALSO
UPSTAIRS ON THE LOWER RIGHT
JUST A SHOT OF AN ENTIRE WALL.
I THINK THERE'S THERE'S ROCK
GOING ON.
YOU CAN SEE AT THE BOTTOM
OF THIS ONE AS WELL UNDERNEATH
THAT SAW TABLE THIS IS JUST A
COOL PHOTO.
THERE'S NOTHING WRONG WITH IT.
THIS IS THE NEW CEILING FRAMING
AND I THREW THIS IN HERE
BECAUSE I LOVE SEEING THINGS
LIKE THIS IN OLD HOUSES.
THOSE ARE THE THAT'S THE
SHEATHING ON THE ROOF.
>> YEAH.
SORRY I DON'T HAVE A MOUSE.
THE OH NO GO BACK.
>> IT'S MY FAVORITE PICTURE.
SO THIS IS WHERE THE CEILING
WILL BE ATTACHED TO THESE
BOARDS ARE LIKE EIGHTEEN TO
TWENTY FOUR INCHES WIDE AND SO
THEY CUT DOWN THIS BIG HONKING
TREE JUST TO PUT THEIR ROOF
SHINGLES ON AND THEY'RE REALLY
COOL AND I HOPE THEY LAST
FOREVER AND THERE'S NO CHAIN NO
PROPOSED CHANGES TO US HERE.
>> SOME OF THESE ARE PHOTOS
FROM LAST MONTH'S REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
SOME ARE FROM THIS MONTH, SOME
ARE FROM THE APPLICANT.
THIS IS JUST TO SHOW YOU THE
BACKYARD IN THE GARAGE THAT'S
BACK THERE NOW WHICH YOU'VE
ALREADY BEEN INTRODUCED TO
EARLIER.
>> IT IS NOT FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANT IT DOES IT QUITE
A BIT OF ROOM BEHIND IT AND
KNOW WHERE THE FRONT OF THIS IS
AND THAT THE THE NEW GARAGE
WILL BE PUSHED BACK.
IT GETS ABOUT SIX FEET FROM
WHERE THIS IS NOW FARTHER
TOWARD THE BACKYARD HERE WE ARE
STANDING IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE
LOOKING BACK AT THAT GARAGE
THERE ARE CONCERNS ABOUT BIG
TREES.
I THINK A COUPLE OF LARGE TREE
LIMBS WOULD HAVE TO BE REMOVED
IN ORDER TO PUT A NEW STRUCTURE
EVEN FARTHER BACK THAN THIS.
BUT THERE IS NO PROPOSAL TO
TAKE EITHER OF THESE TREES OUT
CURRENT GARAGE.
>> OK, WHEN WE SHOWED UP FOR
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE ON MONDAY,
THE CONTRACTOR HAD PUT UP THIS
THIS THIS BOARD WITH A BALLOON
AT THE END SHOWING US HOW HIGH
THE NEW THE MIDPOINT OF THE
GABLE ROOF ON THE NEW GARAGE
WOULD BE.
SO YOU KNOW, FOR ZONING
PURPOSES ON A PITCHED ROOF WE
MEASURE TO THE MIDPOINT OF THE
GABLE NOT ALL THE WAY UP TO THE
ROOF RIDGE TO BE A LITTLE BIT
TALLER THAN THIS.
BUT YOU'LL SEE THAT ON DRAWINGS
.
THIS IS THE MIDPOINT OF THE
ROOF AND THIS PICTURE IS TAKEN
FROM ON THE RIGHT FROM THE
SIDEWALK OUT FRONT.
SO EVEN FARTHER BACK DESIGN
OF THE GARAGE WITH AN EIGHTY
TWO OVER THE TOP OF IT SIMPLE,
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
UM, RECTANGULAR.
IT'S GOT A LITTLE AWNING HERE
OVER THE PERSON DOOR FACING THE
STREET AND AN OVERHEAD DOOR FOR
VEHICLES NORTH AND SOUTH SIDES
AGAIN VERY PLAIN IT IS FOUR
EXPOSURE HORIZONTAL WOOD SIDING
AND THE WINDOWS ARE ANDERSON
CLAD WINDOWS FOUNDATION IS
THIRTY I TWENTY
THERE'S A CROSS
SECTION WITH A LOT OF DETAILS
THAT YOU HAVE YOUR PACKETT AND
HERE'S THE SITE DRAWING WE'VE
THE EXISTING HOUSE CONCRETE
DRIVE UM AND THE THE CURRENT
GARAGE IS A LITTLE FARTHER
FORWARD THAN THIS ONE.
>> IT'S ACTUALLY PRETTY CLOSE
TO WHERE IT SAYS FIVE POINT TWO
FOUR FEET.
THAT'S MAYBE MAYBE IT'S A
LITTLE BIT FARTHER BACK THAN
THAT BUT IT IS BEING PUSHED TO
WITHIN THREE FEET AND ON THE
SIDE AND FIVE FEET IN THE BACK
WHICH IS GOOD BECAUSE IT'S VERY
TALL AND YOU WANT TO PUSH IT
BACK TO MAKE IT RECEDE AS MUCH
AS POSSIBLE.
UM, I THINK THE WINDOWS ARE
SHOWN WITH MOUNTAINS IN THE
DRAWINGS BUT ELSEWHERE IT SAID
THAT THERE WOULD BE NO
MOUNTAINS SO WE MIGHT WANT A
LITTLE CLARIFICATION ON THAT.
I'M I DON'T THINK IT MATTERS
EITHER WAY BUT WOULD BE GOOD TO
KNOW CURRENT THINKING ON THAT
THE PERSON WHO IS
FIBERGLASS
AND IT'S UH APPROXIMATELY
TWENTY FIVE FEET TO THE HOUSE'S
ROOF RIDGE SO TWENTY ONE FEET
TO THE MIDPOINT OF THE GABLE
TWENTY FIVE TO THE RIDGE.
OK UH FROM THE SECRETARY
INTERIOR STANDARDS I'M GOING TO
HAVE A LOT OF STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES SO BEAR WITH ME HERE
FOR A MINUTE THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
FEATURES, FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE YOUR PROPERTY
SHALL BE PRESERVED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE IN THE
MACING SIZE IN ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES TO PROTECT THE
HISTORIC INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT,
NO.10 SAYS THAT NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY AND
ITS ENVIRONMENT WOULD BE
UNIMPAIRED FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR'S GUIDELINES
FOR BUILDING SITE RECOMMENDED
DESIGN, NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS
OR ADJACENT NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT HERE WHICH IS COMPATIBLE
WITH THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE SITE AND WHICH PRESERVES
THE HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN A BUILDING OR BUILDING
A LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN
THE HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE AND TO
IDENTIFY, RETAIN AND PRESERVE
BUILDINGS THEIR FEATURES AS
WELL AS FEATURES OF THE SITE
THAT ARE IMPORTANT AND DEFINING
ITS OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
ALSO RECOMMENDED TO DESIGNING
AND CONSTRUCTING A NEW FEATURE
OR A BUILDING OR SITE WHEN A
HISTORIC FEATURE IS COMPLETELY
MISSING.
MAYBE A NEW DESIGN THAT'S
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING AND
SITE NOT RECOMMENDED AS
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE, SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE OR
WHICH DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE ALSO
NOT RECOMMENDED AS REMOVING OR
RADICALLY CHANGING BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES OR SITE
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING SITE
.
AS A RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED
AS INTRODUCING A NEW BUILDING
OR SITE FEATURE THAT IS OUT
OF SCALE OR OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE DESIGN.
NOW WE'RE MOVING ON TO THINKING
ABOUT SIDING FROM GUIDELINES
FOR WOOD IT'S RECOMMENDED
RECOMMENDED IS MOVING A
RADICALLY CHANGING THIS IS NOT
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED AS
REMOVING A RADICALLY CHANGING
WOOD FEATURES WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SAID AS A
RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED.
>> RECOMMENDED IS REPAIRING
WOOD FEATURES BY PATCHING,
PEELING AND CONSOLIDATING OR
OTHERWISE REINFORCING THE WOOD
USING RECOGNIZED PRESERVATION
METHODS MAY ALSO INCLUDE THE
LIMITED REPLACEMENT IN KIND OR
WITH COMPATIBLE SUBSTITUTE
MATERIAL OF THOSE EXTENSIVELY
DETERIORATED OR MISSING PARTS
OF FEATURES WHERE THERE ARE
SURVIVING PROTOTYPES NOT
RECOMMENDED REPLACING AN ENTIRE
WOOD FEATURE SUCH AS A CORNICE
OR A WALL WOULD REPAIR OF THE
WOOD AND LIMITED REPLACEMENT
ARE APPROPRIATE ALSO
RECOMMENDED AS IDENTIFYING
RETAINING AND PRESERVING
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES AS
WELL AS HISTORIC FEATURES
OF THE SITE THAT ARE IMPORTANT
IN DEFINING ITS OVERALL
CHARACTER FROM THE ANN HARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING NOT
RECOMMENDED AS INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION TO HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THAT IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE SETTING FOR RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACES TO LOCATE SHEDS
AND GARAGES IN THE REAR YARD
AND USE EXTERIOR WALL AND ROOF
MATERIALS THAT ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH HISTORIC MATERIALS ON THE
MAIN STRUCTURE AND IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE USE A
ROOF SHAPE AND PITCH THAT
REPLICATES THE SHAPE AND PITCH
OF THE ROOF OF THE MAIN
STRUCTURE.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO USE
WINDOWS AND DOORS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE IN PROPORTION AND
STYLE.
THE MAIN STRUCTURE AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NOT APPROPRIATE IS
INTRODUCING NEW STRUCTURES OR
SITE FEATURES THAT ARE OUT
OF SCALE WITH THE PROPERTY OR
THE DISTRICT OR ARE OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE AND DESIGNING A
GARAGE OR OTHER ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE THAT IS TALLER OR
LARGER THAN THE MAIN HOUSE FROM
THE ANN ARBOR DESIGN GUIDELINES
FOR WOOD SIDING TRIM AND
ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO REPAIR WOOD
SIDING, SHINGLES, TRIM AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES USING
RECOGNIZED PRESERVATION METHODS
CONSOLIDATING, PATCHING,
SPLICING REINFORCING IN ORDER
TO EXACTLY MATCH THE EXISTING
HISTORIC MATERIAL APPEARANCE
ALSO APPROPRIATE REPLACING WOOD
SIDING THAT HAS DETERIORATED
BEYOND REPAIR WITH COMPONENTS
THAT EXACTLY MATCH THE ORIGINAL
IN DIMENSION DETAIL AND TEXTURE
ALSO REMOVING DAMAGED OR
DETERIORATED PAINT TO THE NEXT
LAYER USING THE GENTLEST MEANS
POSSIBLE AND THEN REPAINTING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
COUPLE OF OTHER THINGS THAT I
MESSED UP UP HERE TO UH ON THE
WOOD SIDING.
THE DC USUALLY REQUESTS THAT
THE APPLICANT CONSOLIDATE AS
MUCH OF THE HISTORIC WOOD
SIDING AS POSSIBLE ON THE FRONT
OF THE BUILDING IF THEY CAN'T
REUSE IT AND IN THIS CASE THREE
SIDES OF THE BUILDING UM AND IN
MY THIS IS IT THIS IS THE FIRST
ONE IN MY UPDATED PROPOSED
MOTION.
>> DID I PUT THAT IN THERE AND
SEE?
>> NO, I DID NOT CONDITION THE
MOTION ON CONSOLIDATING ANY
SALVAGEABLE SIDING ON THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE THOUGH.
>> AND IF YOU COULD ADD THAT IF
YOU WERE SO INCLINED I DO THINK
TALKING ABOUT THE SIDING NOW I,
I, I I KIND OF STRUGGLED WITH
THIS BECAUSE I REALLY JUST LIKE
WHEN PEOPLE REPLACE ALL
OF THEIR SIDING BECAUSE IT'S
EASIER WELL WE DON'T LET THEM
DO THAT BUT IN THIS CASE
THERE'S A LOT OF NEW MATERIALS
ALREADY ON THIS HOUSE WHICH
MAKES ME FEEL A LITTLE BIT
BETTER ABOUT IT.
WE'VE ALREADY GOT TWO THIRDS
OF THE FIRST FLOOR IN NEW
SIDING AND THAT WOULD LOOK A
HECK OF A LOT BETTER IF IT WERE
REPLACED TO MATCH THE HISTORIC
SIDING AND HAD THAT DEEPER
SHADOWLINE THAT YOU SEE HERE.
UH, BUT I DO THINK THAT KEEPING
ENOUGH SIDING TO REPLACE IT
EVEN IF IT'S ON HALF OF THE
FRONT, EVEN IF IT'S JUST BELOW
OR ABOVE YOU THE PORCH ROOF I
THINK THAT THAT'S IMPORTANT TO
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING AND SINCE THE GOALS
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION IS TO KEEP MATERIALS
ON THE BUILDING FOR AS LONG AS
POSSIBLE.
I I DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S AN
UNREASONABLE ASK.
IT IS MORE DIFFICULT AND TAKES
MORE TIME AND YOU HAVE TO BE
EXTRA CAREFUL WHEN YOU'RE
TAKING SIDING OFF AND TRYING TO
PUT IT BACK UP AGAIN.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S
REASONABLE TO TRY TO GET THEM
TO TAKE IT OFF AND PUT IT BACK
ON EVERYWHERE.
IT'S JUST IT'S NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE
ENOUGH LEFT.
>> AND I ALSO THINK THAT
SHEATHING THE HOUSE IS REALLY
IMPORTANT UNDERNEATH THE SIDING
SO LET'S SEE THAT WAS IT ON THE
SIDING AND THEN ON THE GARAGE
IT'S TALL.
>> IT'S REALLY TALL BUT I'M
KIND OF OK WITH IT.
IT'S VERY COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HOUSE.
IT'S VERY SIMPLE WHICH IS A
GOOD THING.
THIS IS A THIS IS A THIS IS A
HISTORIC HOUSE WITH A LOT
OF CHARACTER ON THE FRONT.
I APPRECIATE THAT THEY'RE NOT
TRYING TO PUT TOO MUCH
CHARACTER THE OUTBUILDING IN
THE BACK AND THIS DOES PUSH THE
LIMIT FOR HEIGHT.
>> IT CAN'T GO ANY TALLER THAN
THIS.
BUT I THINK THAT I DON'T THINK
THAT IT'S UNREASONABLE AS LONG
AS THEY TAKE A LOT OF CARE IN
TRIMMING THE TREES AND NOT
JEOPARDIZING ANY OF THEM AND I
THINK THAT'S IT FROM STAFF.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
WE'VE GOT COMMISSIONERS
CALDERON KAPLAN WHO ARE ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
LET'S HEAR YOUR REPORT PLEASE.
>> SURE.
SO THIS LAST THIS LAST VISIT
WAS PRIMARILY FOCUSED ON SIDING
AS WE HAVE BEEN THERE IN
PREVIOUS OCCASIONS AND KIND
OF GOING THROUGH THE DETAILS
OF THE GARAGE AND OTHER THINGS
SOME OF THE SALIENT POINTS THAT
STUCK IN MY MIND IN THE
CONVERSATION WITH THE SIDING IS
THE CONTRACTOR HAD ALREADY
FOUND A MILL NEARBY THAT THAT
CAN REPRODUCE IN THE EXACT SAME
MATERIAL CEDAR IN THE SAME
DIMENSIONS.
THE SIDING THAT'S ON THE HOUSE
SO WELL IN SOME CASES WHERE THE
HISTORIC ORIGINAL WOOD CAN'T BE
PRESERVED THE VERY NEXT BEST
THING THE SAME WOOD IN THE SAME
DIMENSIONS CAN BE REPLACED ON
MY JUST TO MY EYE LOOKING AT
SOME OF A LOT OF THE WOOD
THAT'S ON THERE IS IN VERY,
VERY POOR CONDITION.
IT'S ALREADY AT THE POINT WHERE
IT WOULD NEED TO BE REPLACED
AND THE PROCESS OF REMOVING ALL
OF THE SIDING IN ORDER TO
PRODUCE SHEETING ON THE
STRUCTURE TO MAKE IT POSSIBLE
TO MAKE IT ENERGY EFFICIENT IS
CERTAIN TO DESTROY A LOT MORE
OF IT REGARDLESS OF HOW MUCH
CARE IS PUT INTO IT.
I'VE TRIED TO REMOVE SIDING
THAT'S THAT OLD AND WHEN YOU
REALLY, REALLY WANT TO KEEP IT
IT'S IT'S STILL NOT ALWAYS THAT
EASY.
SO I THOUGHT THAT THE HAVING
ALREADY GONE TO THE TO THE
EXTENT OF FINDING THE RIGHT
SOURCE FOR THE REPLACEMENT WOOD
WAS WAS A GOOD SOLUTION AND
SEEING THE STRUCTURE AS IT IS
AND THE PLACES WHERE YOU REALLY
LOOK IT'S LIKE YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR A SCREEN ROOM WHEN YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THE INSIDE OF THE
SIDING THERE'S A LOT OF LIGHT
COMING THROUGH ALREADY.
THAT'S PRETTY MUCH WHAT I SAW
DENHA ANYTHING THAT YEAH.
I MEAN I CERTAINLY AGREE WITH
THE SENTIMENTS AND THOUGHTS
THAT YOU SAID WE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GO INSIDE THE
HOUSE PROBABLY TWO OR THREE
MONTHS AGO WHEN I WAS STILL
JUST ONE GIANT HOLLOW SHELL
THERE ARE CERTAINLY A LOT
OF LIKE COMING THROUGH THE
BUILDING IN CERTAIN PARTS
, SOME
DEFINITELY WORSE THAN OTHERS.
ONE MOMENT THAT JILL HAD SHOWN
YEAH.
RIGHT THERE THAT'S THAT IS BY
FAR THE WORST THAT PIECE
OF WOOD OR THE BOTTOM THERE IS
NOT EVEN JOINED TO THE WOOD
MENDER.
>> IT'S KIND OF STANDING ON IT
SITTING ON IT.
YOU CAN JUST TIP IT OVER UH
THOSE THAT METAL TO THE LEFT
THERE ALUMINUM THAT THEY PUT ON
A SHEETING TO TRY TO BLOCK SOME
OF THE HOLES IN THE PAST.
BUT YEAH, I I DO AGREE THERE
SOME PARTS THAT ARE WORSE THAN
OTHERS THAT IT'S THE WORST PART
.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT PRESIDENT
PRESENTATION WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE COME FORWARD AT THIS
TIME PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
YOU'VE GOT UP TO FIVE MINUTES
TO SPEAK ABOUT YOUR
APPLICATION.
OK THANK YOU.
I IF IT'S OK I'LL TALK ABOUT
THE ADA AND THEN TROVATORE
CONTRACTURE TO TALK ABOUT THE
SIGHTING SINCE HE'S MUCH MORE
OF AN EXPERT OF THAT.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO AS WE TALKED ABOUT LAST
MONTH WE'RE INTERESTED IN
PUTTING IN THIS REPLACING THE
GARAGE AND PUTTING IN AN AIDE
TO YOU AGAIN THE INTEREST IN
INCREASING DENSITY.
WE OFTEN HAVE FAMILY MEMBERS
WHO COME INTO TOWN.
WE'VE ALSO BEEN AS I MENTIONED
LAST TIME SUPPORTIVE OF OF THE
COMMUNITY AS FAR AS HAVING
ENDOWING A STUDENT AT THE
SCHOOL OF NURSING AND SO FORTH.
AND WE'VE CONSIDERED THAT THAT
THERE MAY BE SOME TIME WE MAKE
THAT AVAILABLE TO A STUDENT
THERE AS WELL.
SO WE TRY IT AS BEST WE COULD
TO PUSH IT TO THE BACK TO MAKE
IT IT'S ONLY A ONE CAR GARAGE
TO TO KEEP IN THE SAME SORT
OF SCALE, IF YOU WILL.
AND JUST A CLARIFICATION AND I
THOUGHT MAYBE WE HAD A RESPONSE
ON THIS BEFORE THE THE LIGHTS
ARE ONLY GOING TO BE ONE OVER
ONE FOR THE THE WINDOWS IN THE
BACK.
SO SORRY ABOUT THE MISTAKE ON
THAT.
SO IF THAT IF THERE ARE ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS ABOUT THE TO
YOU THAT I CAN OR A GARAGE THAT
I CAN ADDRESS THAT'S FINE.
>> TURN OVER WHAT WHY DO YOU
STAY THERE.
SO WE'LL JUST ASK YOU QUESTIONS
NOW AND THEN.
OK FINE SORRY IT DOESN'T MATTER
WHY DON'T YOU DAN DID YOU STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS ON THE
RECORD.
>> I DON'T I DON'T KNOW MY
APOLOGIES DON BLACK ADDRESS
FIVE TO SIX 5TH STREET IS IS
THE PROPERTY WE'RE GOING FOR
PERMANENT ADDRESS IS ONE NINE
NINE ONE MAIN STREET IN
SARASOTA, FLORIDA.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU.
OK, I'M JASON FULTON, OUR THE
CONTRACTOR WITH TWENTY SIXTH
STREET AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
THE HAVE THE JOB TO WORK ON
THOSE BEAUTIFUL HISTORIC HOME I
LIVE IN ONE MYSELF FROM THE
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS AND IN MY
OPINION THE SIDING REALLY NEEDS
TO BE CHANGED JUST TO GET
SHEETING IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
PART AND I DO BELIEVE THAT I
TRIED TO REACH OUT TO THE
BUILDING THE APARTMENT MICHAEL
LAMU AND I DID ON MONDAY BUT HE
HASN'T RETURNED MY EMAIL.
I GOT A HUNCH THAT HE'S GOING
TO REQUIRE SOME SORT WHEN
BRACING KNOWS AND I CONSIDERED
STRUCTURAL AND WOOD FOR WHEN
SHEAR.
SO I THINK HE'S GOING TO
REQUIRE SOMETHING AND HELEN
MENTIONED IF WE PUT SHEETING TO
THE INSIDE YOU STILL HAVE THE
WEATHER, YOU KNOW,
DETERIORATING SIDING AND
GETTING INTO THE BUILDING WHICH
WOULD ALMOST HIDE IT EVEN MORE
TO THE POINT WHERE IT COULDN'T
RIGHT THE STRUCTURE TO THE
POINT WHERE IT TAKE A LONG TIME
BUT IT COULD COLLAPSE RIGHT.
IF YOU HAVE WATER COMING INTO
THE WALL IT COULD READ THE
WHOLE WALL OUT RIGHT TO THE
FOUNDATION AND NOBODY WANTS
WATER IN THEIR HOUSE.
NO MOLD AND EVERYTHING ELSE.
SO THE PROPER WAY TO DO IT FOR
BUILDING CODE TODAY WOULD BE TO
REMOVE THE SIDING, PUT BRAND
NEW SHEETING AND THEN WRAP IT
IN THE HOUSE SO IT WILL BE MORE
ENERGY EFFICIENT AND THE SIDING
WE'D BE GETTING THAT FROM
MANN'S LUMBER WHO ARE HERE IN
TOWN.
THEY TOOK OVER THE FINGERLING
OPERATION SORT OF SMALLER WAY
AND THEY CAN DUPLICATE THE
SIDING.
I'VE ALREADY LOOKED INTO IT.
IT'LL BE CEDAR SIDING ONCE IT'S
PAINTED YOU WILL NEVER YOU
KNOW, NEVER KNOW THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THAT AND THE ORIGINAL
SIDING.
WE DO PLAN ON LEAVING ALL THE
OVERHANGS AND THE FASCIAS.
THERE IS SOME REPAIR UP THERE
BUT THAT'S IN PRETTY GOOD
SHAPE.
SO YOU KNOW THAT PART'S GOING
TO STAY THE SAME.
WE WOULD AT THIS POINT WE WOULD
HAVE A CHANCE TO REALLY WORK ON
THE WINDOWS AND MAKE THE TRIM
THEY LIKE IT WAS IN EIGHTEEN
HUNDREDS RIGHT NOW IT'S GOT A
MIX OF SEVERAL RENOVATIONS
THROUGHOUT THE YEARS
OF ALUMINUM AND STACKED UP
DIFFERENT TYPES OF WOOD, ALL
KINDS OF DIFFERENT PRODUCTS AND
IT'S THE ALUMINUM HAS BEEN
DENTED SO WE INTEND TO MAKE IT
LOOK EXACTLY LIKE IT WAS AN
EIGHTEEN HUNDRED.
THANK YOU JASON.
APPRECIATE THAT.
OK, SO LET'S LET'S FIND OUT IF
THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANTS HERE.
>> YES, COMMISSIONER ROSS?
YEAH, I HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS.
SO DOES THE APPLICATION INCLUDE
THE REPLACEMENT OF ALL THE
SIDING EVEN THE OR THE REMOVAL
OF ALL THE SIDING WITH THIS
KIND OF KIND OF WEIRD SIDING
THAT'S UNDERNEATH THE ADDITION
FROM 2005?
>> WELL, ON THE THE THE
HISTORIC HOUSE THAT'S WHAT I
WOULD LIKE TO DO BECAUSE UNDER
THE PORCH THAT HAS BEEN DONE
I'M GUESSING AROUND TWENTY FIVE
BECAUSE YOU CAN SEE SOME THE
SHEETING THAT THEY USED AND
THERE'S DATA ON THERE THAT
REFERENCES LIKE I THINK IT'S
TWENTY FIVE SO THEY'VE DONE
THAT ALL AROUND THE FRONT ON
THE PORCH WHICH TYPICALLY WOULD
BE THE SIDING THAT WOULD LAST
THE LONGEST BECAUSE IT'S
COVERED FOR WHATEVER REASON
THEY THEY CHANGED IT BUT THEY
FACE NAILED THEY USE NEW SIDING
THEY FACE NAIL THAT IT LOOKS
NOTHING LIKE WHAT IT DID IN THE
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS SO YOU KNOW
IF THEY'RE IF YOU WANT US TO
TRY TO RECLAIM SOME SIDING
WE'RE MORE THAN HAPPY TO TRY TO
DO THAT AND YOU KNOW RECLAIM IT
AND SEE IF IT'S SALVAGEABLE.
CERTAIN PIECES YOU KNOW WE
WOULDN'T WANT TO PUT LITTLE
THREE FOOT PIECES IN THERE.
WE WANT TO DO A NICE FULL
LENGTH PIECES BUT THE PLACE TO
DO IT WOULD BE ON THE PORCH IF
IF IT COMES TO THAT.
BUT THE NEW SIDING WOULD
DEFINITELY BE AN EXACT MATCH
OF WHAT IT WAS ORIGINALLY.
>> SO THEORETICALLY ON THE
HISTORIC HOUSE THE SIDING WILL
BE UNIFORM IN BASED ON THE
PROFILE EXPOSURE ETC. THE
HISTORIC YES WILL MATCH AND
THEN YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
REMOVING THE TRIM AROUND THE
WINDOWS.
IS THAT JUST THROUGHOUT ON THE
HISTORIC HOUSE AS WELL?
>> YEAH, YEAH.
THE WINDOWS ARE THEY'VE BEEN
CHANGED.
I I WAS US TO WEAR WHEN JILL
SAID THERE WAS ALUMINUM SIDING
ON ONE TIME SO THAT'S WHY THEY
HAVE PIECES OF ALUMINUM ON
THERE BUT THEY CHOSE TO NEVER
TAKE IT OFF.
SO IT'S A MIXTURE OF ALUMINUM
WOOD AND STACKED MOLDINGS.
IT LOOKS LIKE THEY WERE
COVERING UP THE ORIGINAL
MOLDINGS WITH A NEW PIECE
OF WOOD.
SO I'M KIND OF CURIOUS TO
WHAT'S BEHIND THERE.
USUALLY IF SOMEBODY PUTS A
PIECE OF WOOD OVER A PIECE
OF WOOD IT MEANS THAT THEY'RE
HIDING SOMETHING IT COULD BE
ROTTEN IN THERE, WHO KNOWS?
>> BUT WITH YOU KNOW, WE WOULD
BE ABLE TO MATCH LIKE A HOUSE
ACROSS A STREET FOR INSTANCE,
HAS SOME REALLY NICE WINDOW
TRIM THEN I WOULD IMAGINE IT'S
VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT THIS HOUSE
LOOKED LIKE WHEN IT WAS BUILT
AND WE COULD MATCH THAT, YOU
KNOW, THE HEADPIECE WOULD MATCH
SOME OF IT WAS ORIGINALLY AND
WE'D HAVE A CHANCE TO REDO IT
ALL TO THE POINT WHERE IT WOULD
I THINK THAT SOUNDS NICE BUT
THAT'S THE FIRST TIME I THINK
WE'RE HEARING THAT RIGHT.
IS THAT NOT A PROBLEM THAT
WASN'T IN THIS APPLICATION THAT
THE WINDOW TRIM IS NOT IN THIS
APPLICATION?
OH, IT'S NOT NO.
NO.
I JUST ASSUMED IT WAS LIKE PART
OF THE SIDING SIDE.
YEAH, NO IT'S NOT PART OF THE
APPLICATION BUT YES, WE WE
DEFINITELY WANT YOU TO TAKE OFF
THAT ALUMINUM THAT WE FOUND
WRAPPING SOME OF THE CELLS AND
STUFF AND RESTORING THAT IS
GREAT.
YOU CAN'T BASE IT ON A HOUSE
ACROSS THE STREET THOUGH.
YOU GOT TO FIGURE OUT WHAT USED
TO BE THERE OR JUST GO WITH
SOMETHING VERY PLAIN AND
SIMILAR TO WHAT'S THERE NOW.
>> WELL, IT COULD BE IT COULD
BE TOTALLY ORIGINAL UNDERNEATH
BECAUSE IT COULD BE STACKED
THINGS ON TOP.
>> SO AND YOU MAY SEE THAT THIS
HAS BEEN SHEARED OFF AND YOU
MAY BE ABLE TO REPLACE THAT TO
PUT A SEAL BACK ON WHATEVER.
BUT THAT CAN JUST BE A STAFF
APPROVAL.
THAT'LL BE EASY BUT YOU NEED TO
BUT YOU NEED TO KNOW PRETTY
MUCH WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO DO SO
IT'S FINE IF YOU WANT TO GET
STARTED AND TAKE THE ALUMINUM
OFF AND SEE WHAT'S UNDERNEATH
YOU SEE WHAT'S IN THERE, GET A
PICTURE OR SOMETHING AND THEN
JUST PROPOSE YOU KNOW WHAT YOU
WANT TO DO TO TO RESTORE IT
BASICALLY WHAT IT USED TO LOOK
LIKE.
>> OK, AND IT SOUNDS LIKE THE
ENTIRE ASSEMBLY IS GOING TO BE
LIKE THREE QUARTER OF AN INCH
THICKER THAN IT IS NOW IN MOST
PLACES IN THE HOUSE BECAUSE
THERE'S NO SHEATHING EXISTING
SO THE HOUSE WILL YOU HAVE TO
HAVE IT RIGHT.
SO SO THAT HAS TO BE AT THE
WINDOW AT THE OPENINGS IS WHERE
THAT HAS TO BE ACCOMMODATED.
THAT CAN BE PART OF HOW YOU'RE
GOING TO DO THAT IS TO BE PART
OF THE STAFF APPROVAL PLACE.
YEAH.
GOTCHA.
OK, THE ORIGINAL TRIM BOARDS
ARE LIKE TWO BOARDS USED TO BE
THICKER BACK IN THE DAY LIKE
WHEN THEY CALL IT A ONE BUT IT
WAS ACTUALLY ONE INCH TODAY BY
THREE QUARTER AND THAT'S WHAT
SOME OF THESE PUT OVER IT WAS
PIECES OF THE THREE QUARTER WE
WOULD BE ORDERING AUTHENTIC YOU
WOULD DO ONE INCH THICK.
YEAH.
TRIM SO IT HAS THE PROPER YEAH.
PROFILE AGAINST THE SIDE THAT
SOUNDS GREAT.
OK DID THAT ANSWER ENOUGH
OF YOUR QUESTION?
WERE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT
PUTTING LIKE THERE'S THE
ADDITION THERE'S A HISTORIC
PART AND THEN THERE'S THE
ADDITION IF YOU CAME IN WITH A
PROPOSAL FOR AN ADDITION TO
THIS HOUSE WE WOULD ASK THAT
DECIDING PROFILE OR SOMETHING
WITH THE SIDING B CHAIN.
>> YOU KNOW, THERE SHOULD BE
SOME DIFFERENTIATING LINE
BETWEEN HISTORIC AND NON
HISTORIC
.
>> SO WHAT YOU'RE PROPOSING
HERE IS A LITTLE DIFFERENT
BECAUSE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS
NOW THE ENTIRE HOUSE IS GOING
TO GET WRAPPED SO THAT IT'S
SORT OF IT'S GOING TO KIND
OF LOOK LIKE IT IT ALL WAS A
HISTORIC HOUSE AND THAT'S A BIT
TRICKY.
I THINK WE'RE KIND OF I GUESS I
DIDN'T AGREE WITH THAT LITTLE
BIT.
OK, I GUESS I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND
IT SO SO I THOUGHT THAT BECAUSE
I MEAN NO I SEE THE EMAIL.
>> OH YEAH.
I THOUGHT OK SO I WAS YEAH YEAH
THIS IS THIS IS GUY WE'RE A
LITTLE CONFUSED SO THE ARE YOU
WRAPPING THIS IS ALL DECIDING
IN THE ENTIRE HOUSE GOING AWAY
OR JUST SOME OF THIS WE'RE
GOING TO MAKE SURE IT'S WRAPPED
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S DONE IN
TWO THOUSAND FIVE RIGHT IN THE
EDITION YOU MIGHT NOT TOUCH THE
EDITION WE ARE BECAUSE THERE
ARE SOME WINDOW CHANGES BACK
THERE.
WHAT ABOUT THE SIDING DECIDING
IN TURN THAT ISN'T DONE VERY
WELL EITHER.
IT'S IT'S IT'S BACK THERE AND
THEY DIDN'T PAINT THE EDGES
WHEN THEY PUT IT TOGETHER SO
IT'S SWELLING UP.
YEAH.
SO OK SO YOU WOULD REPLACE THAT
WITH CEDER YOU WOULD REPLACE
THAT WITH CEMENT.
I MEAN MY INTENTION AND IT'S UP
TO THE HOMEOWNER OBVIOUSLY AT
THE END BUT I WOULD I WOULD NOT
WANT A HOUSE WITH A MIXTURE
OF CEMENT AND WOOD AND
ESPECIALLY FROM THE EIGHTEEN
HUNDREDS I WOULD WANT IT ALL TO
BE CEDAR LAPPE SIDING THE
ORIGINAL WHEN IT WAS BUILT WITH
AND UNDERSTAND IT COULD BE
CONFLICTING TO TELL THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
ADDITIONS AND THE ORIGINAL
HOUSE BUT WE COULD DO SOMETHING
TO DEFINITELY MAKE IT LOOK LIKE
IT'S A DIFFERENT HOME FROM BACK
FRONT TO BACK THAT POINT
EARLIER IF YOU HAD CLOSER TO
THE MIKE, IF YOU HAD A
DIFFERENT SHADOW YEAH.
OF YOU KNOW TO THE DEPTH OF I
MEAN BUT THAT THAT'S ONE WAY TO
DO IT SO KNOW BUT BUT I GUESS
I'M JUST GOING TO ASK IS WHAT
IS THE PROPOSAL THAT WE SHOULD
BE CONSIDERING TONIGHT?
I THINK IT SOUNDED LIKE THE
PROPOSAL THAT STAFF IS
CONSIDERING IS JUST CHANGING
THE HISTORIC SIDING TO YEAH,
THAT'S RIGHT.
SO NOW THAT I LOOK THE EMAIL
AGAIN, IT'S A LITTLE AMBIGUOUS.
OK, IF YOU WANT TO DO THE WHOLE
HOUSE, IF YOU THINK YOU MIGHT
NEED TO DO THE WHOLE HOUSE, I
THINK THAT'S OK.
BUT IF YOU CAN LIKE DENHA
SAYING DIFFERENTIATE YOU'VE GOT
TO REPLICATE THE HISTORIC WOOD
SIDING ON THE FRONT AS PART
OF THE PROPOSAL.
BUT IF YOU CAN THINNER SIDING
ON THE BACK HALF OR ARE OR
SLIGER EXPLAINS THE BIGGER
EXPOSURE COULD DO THAT OR
SOMETHING SMALLER.
IT'S IT'S NOT PERFECT
UNFORTUNATELY BECAUSE IT WAS
THE DESIGN WAS SORT
OF SEAMLESSLY INTEGRATED INTO
THE HISTORIC HOUSE.
BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE BETTER
BETTER THAN NO DIFFERENTIATION
AT ALL.
YEAH, BECAUSE THE HOUSE REP YOU
KNOW, I BELIEVE IT'S GOING TO
BE REQUIRED BECAUSE WE'RE
CHANGING THE WINDOWS IN THE TWO
THOUSAND FIVE ADDITIONS.
SO I BELIEVE A BUILDING
INSPECTOR IS HE'S GOING TO WANT
THAT.
>> YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK SO.
BUT YOU'LL FIND OUT WHEN YOU
WHEN YOU DO THAT.
YEAH.
I MEAN YEAH IF YOU TAKE THE
SIDING OFF FOR SURE BUT YOU
DON'T TAKE TO TO PUT THERE
THERE'S SOME WINDOW CHANGES IN
THE ADDITIONS PARTS TO THIS
SPECIFIC YES FOLDER WINDOW ON
THE SIDE HERE OVER THE AIR
CONDITIONER CONDENSER.
YEAH THAT'S NO LONGER THERE SO
WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
DECIDING ANYWAY BECAUSE I WAS
YOU KNOW THAT WAS IN THE
ORIGINAL APPROVAL FOUR MONTHS
AGO.
I'M NOT SURE THAT'S RIGHT.
SOME OF THOSE CHANGES.
SO RATHER THAN PEACE AND YOU
KNOW THE WINDOW WE WANT TO REDO
THAT WHOLE SINUSOID IT LOOKS
PROFESSIONAL, DONE PROPERLY.
>> OK, SO WE'RE WE'RE GETTING
INTO SORT OF LIKE DESIGNING THE
PROJECT HERE RIGHT NOW WHICH IS
REALLY WHAT WE DON'T WANT TO DO
UP HERE UNFORTUNATELY.
SO WE WANT TO KIND OF STOP
THAT.
BUT WE JUST DID NEED TO CLARIFY
EXACTLY WHAT YOU WERE ASKING
FOR TONIGHT AND IS THAT HAS
THAT BEEN CLARIFIED?
YEAH, OK, MAYBE YOU COULD
RESTATE IT SO WE KNOW WHAT
WE'RE CAN HEAR IT FROM YOU SO
COMMISSIONERS DO YOU ARE YOU IS
ANYONE INTENDING TO ADD THE
MOTION THAT ORIGINAL HISTORIC
SIDING SHOULD BE USED UNDER THE
FIRST FOR A PORCH TO THE EXTENT
THAT IT CAN BE SALVAGED?
>> YEAH, I THINK THERE'S ALMOST
NO TEETH IN THAT SENTENCE IF
YOU SAY SHOULD BE AND TO THE
EXTENT WELL SO I MEAN YOU SAY
THERE'S WE COULD ASK NICELY AND
THAT WOULD BE THE SAME AND WE
ALL YOU CAN SAY WILL BE YOU CAN
WRITE BUT ALSO YEAH BUT IF
THERE'S GUNNLAUGSSON THERE'S
NONE LEFT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
SO NO ONE IS JUMPING ON THAT I
DON'T THINK OK ALL RIGHT WE
WOULD LIKE THAT.
>> YES I MEAN I GUESS I'M JUST
A LITTLE SO IS THE SCOPE OF THE
WORK RELATED TO THE LAB SITING
CAPTURED IN THAT EMAIL THAT WAS
THERE BECAUSE THERE'S NOTHING
THAT SAYS THAT THE NEW SIDING
WILL MATCH THE THE STORAGE AND
THERE'S NO IT'S JUST LIKE WELL
I'VE HAD AN EXCITING YEAH.
>> IT IS IN THE MOTION YEAH.
OK SORT OF PROCEDURE.
>> YEAH.
SO THIS IS NOT STAFF APPROVED
AS YOU ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
APPROVING REMOVAL OF ALL THE
HISTORIC SIDING.
YES.
SO IF WE REMOVE THAT CONCERN
BECAUSE WE DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANY WAY TO SORT OF ENFORCE
ANYTHING ELSE THEN DOES IT
REVERT TO STAFF APPROVAL
FOR
THE FUTURE?
>> YEAH, WELL I'M THINKING
BECAUSE NOW YOU'RE THINKING
ABOUT A DIFFERENT DESIGN FOR
THE NON HISTORIC PORTION OF THE
BUILDING SO THEY COULD COME
BACK WE COULD SAY IT'S OK TO
REMOVE ALL THE HISTORIC SIDING.
THEY COULD COME BACK TO YOU
WITH A MORE CONCRETE DESIGN
OF THE COULD BE WHAT'S GOING TO
BE ON THE HISTORIC PART AND
WHAT'S GOING TO BE ON THE NON
HISTORIC PART.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
ABSOLUTELY.
BECAUSE I COULD ALREADY APPROVE
SOMETHING DIFFERENT ON THE NON
HISTORIC SO YEAH YEAH YES I
JUST DID.
STAFF NEEDS THE COMMISSION'S
BLESSING TO TAKE OFF ALL OF THE
HISTORIC SITES.
GOT IT AND REPLACE IT WITH THAT
MAKES SENSE.
OK YEAH.
>> GOT AN OK NO WE STILL HAVE
SOME QUESTIONS BUT BUT THEN
JUST NOW WE KNOW WHAT WE'RE
WHAT THE PROPOSAL IS AND THAT
WAS A LITTLE BIT OF YEAH.
JUST LIKE INCITER TALK ABOUT
HOW WE CAN DO THIS.
OK SO LET'S STAY ON THE SIDING
IS THERE SOMEONE OK IS THERE
ANOTHER QUESTION FOR THE
APPLICANT SPECIFIC TO THE SITE
WE CAN DISCUSS WE CAN DISCUSS
IT YEAH OK I SEE THE MOTION
HERE IN THE FRONT END OK OK AND
SO AND THEN OK SO NOTHING MORE
ON THE SIDING AT LEAST FOR THE
MOMENT ON THE APPLICANT FOR THE
APPLICANT AND THEN SO THEN THE
OTHER PROPOSAL ON THE TABLE IS
FOR THE YOU AND I AM JUST
TRYING TO GET TO THAT THERE'S A
DRAWING THAT I'M CIRCULATING
HERE OK I WAS PROVIDED BY THE
CONTRACTOR.
>> YEAH IT IS HE DID SCALE IT
SO OK YOU DON'T GET THAT.
SO THE WAVE HEIGHT IS ALMOST
IDENTICAL OR NOT.
NO IT'S SLIGHTLY LOWER IT LOOKS
LIKE OH YEAH I JUST HAD TO LIFT
UP OK YEAH IT'S LOWER IN THE
RANGE HEIGHT IS LOWER OK I MEAN
YOU MENTIONED THE THE HOUSE IS
TWENTY FIVE FEET TALL TO THE
RICH RIGHT.
IS THAT WHAT YOU SAID IN THE
STAFFORD.
WELL THAT'S WHAT IT'S THAT'S
WHAT THE SLIDE SAID.
>> I JUST I APPRECIATE THAT
ZONING REQUIRES LIKE THE
MIDPOINT OF THE GABLE BUT FOR
US REALLY WHAT WE'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT IS IS THE RANGE HEIGHT
LOWER THAN THE HEIGHT AND AND
ALSO THE EVE HEIGHTS.
SO THE MIDPOINT OF THE THE
GABLE I KNOW THAT'S LIKE THE
KEY FOR ZONING BUT FOR US IT'S
NOT REALLY THE KEY.
NO, BUT I DID SOME IT LOOKS
LIKE IT'S OVER THE RIDGE IS
AROUND TWENTY TWO AND A HALF
BASED ON THE SIX TWELVE ROOF
AND IT LOOKS LIKE YOU DID A SIX
TWELVE ROOF TO MATCH.
>> YEAH SO SO JUST FOR THE
RECORD THERE YOU KNOW MATCH
THAT YOU COULD HAVE GONE TO
LIKE A THREE TWELVE IT WOULD
HAVE NOT MATCHED BUT THE RIDGE
WOULD HAVE BEEN LOWER YOU DON'T
I'M SAYING SO LIKE I THINK WE
APPRECIATE LIKE A LITTLE BIT
HIGHER RIDGE BUT MATT YOU KNOW
IT'S MORE COMPACT BOWL AND YOU
GOT TO GET TO EIGHT FOOT TALL.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT I GET
WHY YOU DID IT AND I AND I
THINK JUST SEEING THIS IS VERY
HELPFUL.
I KNOW IT'S NOT GOING TO LOOK
LIKE ANYTHING THAT YOU'VE GOT
TO IMAGINE THAT THE ONE ON THE
RIGHT IS WAY IN THE BACK YARD
AND THE ONE ON THE LEFT IS
RIGHT ON THE BLOCK.
>> IF WE WERE TO GO ON A BIG
SCALE UP FROM THE STREET,
THAT'S WHAT IT WOULD LOOK.
YEAH, RIGHT.
YES.
FROM A THOUSAND FEET AWAY.
THAT'S WHAT IT'S GOING TO LOOK
LIKE.
>> YEAH.
OK, SO THAT WAS JUST MY
QUESTION AND I THINK YOU
ANSWERED WITH THAT DRAWING THAT
WAS MY THAT WAS MY QUESTION ARE
THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT ON THE ADA?
>> YOU OK?
THANK YOU BOTH.
WE MIGHT CALL YOU BACK UP BUT
FOR NOW WE'VE GOT TO DO THE THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO WE'LL OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM.
IT'S AT FIVE TWENTY SIX 5TH
STREET AND THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSON SPEAKER
AFTER THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AND I'M NOT SEEING
ANYONE AT THE PODIUM DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE WE HAVE ANYONE
ONLINE.
SO THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
IS NOW CLOSED AND I WILL I WILL
ASK IS THERE A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION ON
THIS ITEM?
>> AND IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE
MIGHT BE A COUPLE OF MOTIONS,
COMMISSIONER ROSS.
YEAH.
WITH THE SAME YEAH.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE TO SIX 5TH
STREET CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO REMOVE THE WOOD
SIDING AND TRIM RE INSULATE AND
INSTALL SHEETING AND REPLACE
THE SIDING WITH CEDAR SIDING
THAT MATCHES ALL DIMENSIONS
SHOULD I SAY OF THE ORIGINAL.
>> YES PLEASE.
ALL DIMENSIONS OF THE ORIGINAL
HISTORIC WOOD SIDING AND TO
REMOVE A NONCONTRIBUTING GARAGE
AND CONSTRUCT A NEW GARAGE THE
SECOND FLOOR ACCESSORY DWELLING
IN IT AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE WITH EXTERIOR DESIGN
RIECHMANN TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA IT MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARD FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS AND PARTICULAR
STANDARDS FOR NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING AND WOOD AND THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND WOOD
SIDING TRIM IN ARCHITECTURAL
DETAILS TO SOMEONE SUPPORT THAT
SECOND GREAT THAT IS THE MOTION
BY COMMISSIONER ROSS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN
SO IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION WE CAN START WITH
DECIDING HOW CAN WE AMEND THE
MOTION SO THAT WHEN WE SAY TO
REINSTATE AND INSTALL SHEATHING
AND REPLACE THE SIDING WITH A
SIDING PLAN APPROVED
OF SUBSIDENCE, YOU'RE SAYING
THAT MATCHES ALL THE BENCHES
WOOD SIDING WILL TAKE OUT THE
DESCRIPTION BECAUSE NOW WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THE HISTORIC SITE.
YOU KNOW THE SIDING ON THE
HISTORIC BUILDING NOT NANCHANG,
THE SIDING ON THE WE DON'T WE
DON'T HAVE THE FINAL SIDING
PLAN AS MY UNDERSTANDING COULD
WE LEAVE IT WHEN COMMISSIONER
ROSS'S AMENDMENT JUST ADD A
COUPLE MORE WORDS SO IT SAYS
REPLACE THE SIDING WITH CEDAR
SIDE THAT MATCHES ALL
DIMENSIONS OF THE ORIGINAL
ORIGINAL HISTORIC WOOD SIDING
ON THE HISTORIC PORTION OF THE
HOUSE.
OK, THE HISTORIC AND THERE'S NO
FURTHER REVIEW NEEDED ON THE
NON HISTORIC SIDING HOUSE.
>> THAT'LL JUST BE A DIFFERENT
APPLICATION AND STAFF APPROVED
I COULD SAY ON THE TORAH
PORTION OF THE HOUSE WITH STAFF
APPROVAL REQUIRED OR THE NOT
HISTORIC SIGNING PROCESS.
>> I'M MAKING THIS MUCH LONGER
THAN I AND THE WINDOW AND THE
WINDOW TRIM COULD BE PART
OF THAT.
>> RIGHT.
AND I'LL READ BACK TO YOU IN
JUST A MINUTE, OK?
OK.
COMMISSIONER ROSS, TELL US IF
THIS IS OK.
OH, LET'S REMOVE THE WOOD
SIDING TRIM REINSTATE INSTALL
SHEATHING AND REPLACE THE
SIDING OF CEDAR SIDING THAT
MATCHES ALL DIMENSIONS OF THE
ORIGINAL HISTORIC WOOD SIDING
ON THE HISTORIC PORTION OF THE
HOUSE AND WITH STAFF APPROVAL
REQUIRED FOR THE SIDING ON THE
NON HISTORIC PORTION OF THE
HOUSE ALONG WITH WINDOW TRIM
DIMENSIONS.
>> SO QUICK QUESTION.
YEAH, UM SHOULD THERE BE
SPECIFIC LINGERS AROUND IF A
SITUATION THAT WHEN THE
ALUMINUM FOIL STOCK OR WHATEVER
IS REMOVED FROM THE WINDOW TRIM
AND IF THERE'S ORIGINAL WINDOW
TRIM REMAINING THAT IT SHOULD
BE KEPT AND IF NOT THEN THE NEW
TRIM SHOULD BE THE DESIGN
SHOULD BE BASED ON THE ORIGINAL
I THINK I THINK WE'LL JUST VET
THAT IN THE STAFF REVIEW YOU
WILL WELL GIVE US PHOTOS OF YOU
KNOW, THE WINDOWS THAT NEED
TRIM CHANGES AND THE PORTIONS
THAT ARE HISTORIC NEED TO
REMAIN AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
BUT IF THEY CAN'T BE THEN WHAT
THEY'RE GOING TO REPLACE THEM
WITH I MEAN IT'S SORT OF AN
HONEST STANDARD ALSO IT'S IT'S
ALL GOT TO COME OFF BECAUSE
THEY'RE ADDING THREE QUARTERS
OF AN INCH TO THE SIGNING.
SO IF YOU IF YOU LEAVE THE
HISTORIC TRIM IT'S GOING TO
LOOK YEAH.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE OK.
SO OK.
YEAH.
PUTTING IN INSTEPS HAND
UNDERSTANDING WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING FOR.
YEAH OK LET'S ROLL THAT.
>> OK SO THAT WAS AMENDED AND
DO WE HAVE TO APPROVE THAT
AMENDMENT OR EVERYONE JUST
SEEMS GOOD WITH IT SO WE JUST
ARE OK THE MOTION IS FINE
BECAUSE THE PERSON WHO MADE THE
MOTION IS THAT THE COMMISSIONER
IS OK WITH IT OK OK SO THEN
LET'S DISCUSS LET'S JUST LET'S
LET'S HAVE MORE DISCUSSION
ABOUT DECIDING DOES ANYONE HAVE
ANY FURTHER COMMENTS THERE?
>> I THINK THAT I WILL JUST IT
PLEASE CHIME IN IF YOU DO I I
THINK THAT WHAT WE'VE HEARD IS
YOU KNOW WHAT WE DISCUSSED IS
THAT WE AGREE THAT THE SITING
DECIDING SHOULD BE REPLACED.
>> I THINK THAT WE DIDN'T PUT
IT IN THE MOTION BUT WE ALL
WOULD BE BEHIND AN EFFORT AND A
GREAT EFFORT TO SAVE AS MUCH
THE BIG PIECES THAT YOU CAN.
AND I THINK WE ALL PROBABLY
AGREE WITH YOU, JASON, THAT THE
PLACE TO DO THAT IS BELOW THE
PORCH FIRST AND THEN SECOND IF
THERE'S MORE WOULD BE ABOVE THE
PORCH.
>> I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT ON
THERE AND I THINK WE ALL AGREE
WITH THAT.
>> ANY COMMENTS ON THE SIDING?
OK, SO THEN ON YOU IT'S A VERY
SIMPLE DESIGN.
IT SEEMS TO MEET THE STANDARDS
VERY WELL.
>> BUT FOR THE QUESTION OF IS
IT TOO BIG I IT SEEMS LIKE THIS
IS HOW BIG THESE EIGHTY USE ARE
.
THEY'RE ALL ABOUT THIS SIZE IF
NOT BIGGER.
IT'S SLIGHTLY BIGGER THAN IT
COULD BE BECAUSE OF THE REQUEST
TO MATCH THE ROOF WHICH IS
SOMETHING TO NOTE AND I THINK
IT'S REALLY THE QUESTION COMES
DOWN TO IS THE SITE DEEP ENOUGH
REALLY TO SUPPORT THIS?
>> IS IT FAR ENOUGH AWAY FROM
THE HOUSE?
SO ANY COMMENTS OR ANY COMMENTS
ABOUT THE ABUSE?
ARE WE ALL IN AGREEMENT THAT
THAT'S KIND OF WHERE WE ARE?
>> YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS,
COMMISSIONER ROSS?
I'M MORE JAZZED UP ABOUT THE
SIGHTING.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, FINALLY, DO YOU HAVE ANY
COMMENTS ABOUT THE SIGHTING?
OK, I ESTIMATED BETWEEN THE
AIDOO IN THE HOUSE THERE'D BE
ABOUT 17 FEET OF IF IF THE
DRAWING IS DONE TO SCALE.
SO THAT'S PUT THAT ON THE
RECORD TOO.
OK, AND THERE'S NO MOUNTAINS IN
THE IN OK ALL LET'S VOTE SEEING
AS THERE'S NO MORE COMMENTS SO
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
>> THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST
RECEIVE ALL REQUIRED PERMITS
FROM THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING
YOUR PROJECT.
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU'LL BE
TALKING TO THE THE BUILDING
ADMINISTRATORS OVER THERE AND
SO YOU'LL YOU'LL KNOW ALL ABOUT
THAT.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
APPRECIATE IT.
>> NO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU DON CHERRY JASON,
APPRECIATE IT.
>> YEP YEP.
OK, LET'S MOVE ON TO NEW
BUSINESS THAT'S HEARINGS F
HEARINGS AND THE FIRST HEARING
HAS BEEN POSTPONED.
>> IT'S FIVE FIFTY THREE S
SEVEN STREETS BUT WE'RE JUST
GOING TO DO A PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THAT IS THAT CORRECT?
OK, SO IF IF ANYONE IS HERE FOR
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR 553 S
SEVENTH STREET, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS OPEN AND NO ONE'S
APPROACHING THE PODIUM AND I
DON'T THINK WE HAVE ANYONE ON
LINE.
SO NOW WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
WE DID OUR LEGAL DUTY THERE FOR
EF1 AND WE'LL MOVE ON TO F TO
SIX EIGHTEENTH S FIRST STREET
STAFF REPORT PLEASE PER PULQUE
DIRECTRESS THIS ONE AND A HALF
STOREY CRAFTSMAN HOME WAS FIRST
OCCUPIED IN 1916 FEATURES
SHINGLED FRONT AND SOUTH SIDE
GABLES WITH LAPPE SIDING WHICH
IS CURRENTLY ALUMINUM ON THE
FIRST STORY AND IN THE REAR
GABAL IN TWO THOUSAND SEVEN
STAFF APPROVED AN APPLICATION
TO REPLACE PLYWOOD GUARDRAILS
ON THE FRONT PORCH WITH THE
CURRENT SPINDLE GUARDRAILS.
THERE IS A NINETEEN NINETY
PHOTO AT THE END OF THE STAFF
REPORT TO REPLACE THE PORCH
CEILING AND TO INSTALL NEW
PORCH DECKING AND NEW COLUMN
BASES.
THIS HOUSE IS ON THE WEST SIDE
OF S FIRST STREET BETWEEN WEST
MADISON AND WEST MOSTLY STREET
AND THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
HGC APPROVAL TO REMOVE A REAR
DOOR, REPLACE IT WITH A WINDOW
AND TO REMOVE A PAIR OF VINYL
WINDOWS IN ORIGINAL OPENINGS ON
THE REAR ELEVATION AND REPLACE
THEM THE FRENCH DOORS ALSO TO
INSTALL TWO VENTS ON THE REAR
ELEVATION AND ONE ON THE S
ELEVATION MARIJANA
WOULD YOU DO
ME A FAVOR AND PROMOTE MARKOE
TO THE MEETING?
>> THANK YOU
.
THE APPLICANT IS JOINING US VIA
ZOOME AND THIS IS THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
THERE'S THIS LITTLE
COVERED STOOP HERE THAT IS IS
IS NOT ORIGINAL THE HOUSE DOES
NOT SHOW UP ON THE THIRTY ONE
OR FORTY EIGHT SANBORN FIRE
INSURANCE MAPS SO THIS WAS A
LATER EDITION.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT FUNKY HERE
WITH THE THE THE PORCH BASES
ARE CONCRETE BLOCKS WHICH MEANS
THEY WILL PROBABLY NEVER ROT
WHICH IS GOOD BUT THIS IS
PROPOSED TO JUST STAY THERE AND
JUST BE A LITTLE COVERED PORCH
GOOD PLACE TO STORE YOUR BIKE
OR YOUR LAWN MOWER OR WHATEVER
GOING AROUND THE PAIR
OF WINDOWS I MENTIONED HAVE
VINYL REPLACEMENT WINDOWS IN
THEM NOW IT IS AN ORIGINAL
WINDOW OPENING AND THE BACK
DOOR OPENING IS PRESUMED TO BE
ORIGINAL THOUGH IT ALSO HAS A
REPLACEMENT DOOR CURRENTLY A
COUPLE OF PHOTOS ON THE REAR ON
THE SIDE OF WHERE THE THE VENTS
WOULD GO.
THESE ARE ALL APPROPRIATE WOULD
BE STAFF APPROVED.
IT'S JUST THAT THEY WERE YOU
KNOW, HE WAS APPLYING FOR THIS
ANYWAY SO MIGHT AS WELL INCLUDE
THEM ON THIS APPLICATION
DRAWINGS.
YOU CAN SEE HERE THAT RIGHT NOW
THERE'S A FRONT DOOR, A SIDE
DOOR AND A REAR DOOR ON THE
HOUSE.
THIS IS A DRAWING OF THE REAR
ELEVATION AS IT IS NOW WITH
DIMENSIONS OF THE PAIR
OF WINDOWS AND OF THE DOOR AND
THE PROPOSED IS TO SEE IF I CAN
ZOOM IN HERE.
YEAH, PROPOSED IS TO INSTALL A
SIXTY BY EIGHTY INCH PAIR
OF FRENCH DOORS AND REMOVE THAT
DOOR AND INSTALL A THIRTY SIX
BY 32 INCH WINDOW.
THE APPLICATION DIDN'T INDICATE
WHAT THE WINDOW MATERIALS WOULD
BE BUT WE BUT IN THE MOTION IT
DOES SPECIFY THAT IT SHOULD BE
THEY SHOULD BE WOOD OR WOOD
CLAD CLAD WOULD RATHER ON THE
LET'S SEE THE TWO VENTS ARE
ALSO GOING ON THE BACK JUST
OUTSIDE OF WHERE THE THAT
LITTLE COVERED PORCH IS AND
THEN ON THE LET'S SAY THIS
WOULD BE THE SOUTH SIDE
ELEVATION.
THERE'S A NEW UP NEAR THE EHV
THERE'S ANOTHER DRAWING.
IT WAS AN EARLIER DRAWING.
I THINK THAT THIS ONE COME ON
SORRY DOESN'T BOTHER ME BECAUSE
I'M ZOOMED IN.
OKAY.
THAT WAS TOO FAR FOR AND THAT'S
THE WRONG ONE.
>> UH, SORRY.
OK, HERE WE ARE BACK AGAIN.
THIS WAS AN EARLIER DRAWING.
IT'S THE THE THINGS ARE THE
SAME.
THIS ONE INDICATES A SLIDING
DOOR BUT IT WAS ACTUALLY FRENCH
DOORS THAT THEY LANDED ON BUT
THEN THEY GAVE US NEW DRAWINGS.
IT WERE A LITTLE BIT CLEARER.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
YOU CAN SEE THE IS NOT EVEN
CENTERED OR ANYTHING UNDERNEATH
THIS LITTLE PORCH.
SO IT'S REALLY VERY FEW
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
HERE IN THE BACK.
THE WORK WILL BE COMPLETELY
INVISIBLE FROM THE STREET IT'S
GOT THESE NICE LITTLE CORNER
RETURNS BUT THIS IS JUST ALL
SIDING, NO SHINGLES OR ANYTHING
AS YOU CAN SEE FROM THE SIDES,
THE WORK WON'T BE VISIBLE.
IT'S A PRETTY CUTE LITTLE
CRAFTSMAN HOUSE THOUGH AND FROM
THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS I ALREADY READ TO TO
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
FEATURES, FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY SHALL
BE PRESERVED.
AND I'VE READ NUMBER NINE TO AS
WELL FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
WINDOWS.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO CHANGE
THE NUMBER, LOCATION, SIZE OR
GLAZING PATTERN OF WINDOWS
YOU'RE PUTTING NEW OPENINGS,
BLOCKING WINDOWS AND INSTALLING
REPLACEMENT SASH WHICH DO NOT
FIT THE HISTORIC WINDOW OPENING
OR REMOVING A RADICALLY
CHANGING WINDOWS WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDINGS THAT AS A RESULT THE
CHARACTERS DIMINISHED STAFF
DOESN'T BELIEVE THAT THESE
PROPOSED CHANGES WILL DIMINISH
THE CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING
FROM ENTRANCES AND PORCHES IT
IS RECOMMENDED DESIGNING AND
INSTALLING ADDITIONAL ENTRANCES
WHEN REQUIRED FOR A NEW USE IN
THE MANNER THAT PRESERVES THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING I.E. LIMITING SUCH
ALTERATION TO NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS FROM THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR PORCHES
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL A
NEW PORCH AN ENTRANCE ON
SECONDARY ELEVATIONS MAY BE
APPROPRIATE IF IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH THE BUILDING'S
ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER AND THE
DESIGN OF MATERIALS ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE BUILDING
AND THE SITE.
THIS IS A REALLY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
I DON'T HAVE MUCH ELSE TO SAY
ABOUT THOSE STAFF DOES SUPPORT
IT.
NO CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
WOULD BE LOST AND IT'S NOT
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT
COMMISSIONERS' CALDERON AND
KAPLAN LET'S HEAR YOUR REPORT.
I REALLY CAN'T ADD ANYTHING
THAT WAS A COMPLETE REPORT
OF IT FROM JILL.
I THINK THAT WAS THAT WAS
EVERYTHING THAT NEEDS TO BE
SAID AND NOTHING ELSE STICKS
OUT IS NECESSARY TO ADD.
>> I WOULD AGREE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, SO NOW WE'LL GET THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION.
IT SOUNDS LIKE WE'VE GOT MARCO
CALLING IN ON ZOOME AND SO
WOULD THE APPLICANT PLEASE ON
YOUR MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR
VIDEO PLEASE AND PROVIDE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK ABOUT YOUR APPLICATION
AND RESPOND TO THE STAFF AND
REVIEW COMMITTEE BEFORE MARCO
BEFORE YOU GET STARTED.
I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT IN THE
APPLICATION I SAID THEY WOULD
MATCH THE HISTORIC TERM
DIMENSIONS BUT WE HAD A
CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT AND
MARCO PROPOSED USING FOUR INCH
TRIM AND THAT FOUR INCH WOOD
TRIM IS INCLUDED IN THE MOTION
TRIM IS DISTINGUISHED.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, MARCO.
YOU CAN GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
HI.
HI THERE.
THANK YOU FOR FOR CONSIDERING
THIS APPLICATION.
I'M NOT SURE I HAVE VIDEO.
>> I DON'T SEE A BUTTON FOR IT.
I CAN HEAR YOU LOUD AND CLEAR.
YEAH.
IF YOU FIND THE VIDEO BUTTON
THAT'LL BE GREAT BUT IF NOT
WE'LL JUST WE'LL TALK LIKE THIS
COOL.
I'M NOT I'M NOT SEEING A WAY TO
TURN ON VIDEO SO WHY DON'T WE
STICK WITH THIS BUT YEAH I'M
MARCO FAISA OF SIX EIGHTEEN S
FIRST STREET AND I APPRECIATE
YOU CONSIDERING I DON'T REALLY
HAVE ANYTHING TO TO ADD OTHER
THAN YOU KNOW WHAT WHAT IS
ALREADY BEEN ACCIDENT
EXCELLENTLY PRESENTED BY VIRGIL
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
BUT YEAH I'M NOT REALLY SURE IF
THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE I SHOULD
BE SAYING.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS
YOU MIGHT HAVE.
>> I THINK THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
WELL I'LL JUST FIND OUT IF
THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS IF YOU
JUST HOLD ON FOR A SECOND AND
I'LL ASK THE COMMISSION RIGHT
NOW ANY QUESTIONS FOR MARCO?
>> A LOT OF HEADS SHAKING.
OK, SO MARCO, WE DON'T HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR YOU AT THE
MOMENT.
JUST JUST HOLD ON THOUGH AND
WE'LL RUN THROUGH THE
PROCEDURE, OK?
>> SOUNDS THANK YOU.
>> THANKS.
OK, SO NOW WE WILL DO THE
PUBLIC HEARING WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM IT
IS 618 S FIRST STREET NO ONE
APPROACHING THE PODIUM AND WE
DON'T HAVE ANYONE ONLINE SO NOW
WE'LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS ITEM AND WE'LL GO TO A
MOTION.
>> SO IS THERE A COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
ON THIS ITEM?
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUED CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION BY VOTE TO E AND
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
THAT'S NOT BOTH.
>> I'M SORRY I JUST MOVED TO
PAGE.
YEAH SIX EIGHTEEN FORTY FIVE
WE'RE GOING TO PUT IT SOMEWHERE
ELSE MAY HAVE TO DO THIS.
>> I JUST HERE JUST PUT THE I
COULD DO WELL DO YOU HAVE IT
LOOKS LIKE HE'S GOT NOT A
PROBLEM.
NO NO NO.
OK WELL DON'T THINK I'M
ACTUALLY I'M STILL WAITING FOR
MY REPORT TO DOWNLOAD.
>> YEAH.
DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE I HAVE IT
I'D LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
SOMEWHERE JUST SOUNDS GOOD.
YES I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 618 S FIRST
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO INSTALL THREE
VENTS, REMOVE A REAR DOOR AND
REPLACE WITH A WINDOW, REMOVE A
PAIR OF VINYL WINDOWS AND
ORIGINAL OPENINGS AND REPLACE
THEM WITH FRENCH DOORS AND USE
FOUR INCH WOOD TRIM FOR BOTH.
THE PROPOSED WORK IS COMPATIBLE
IN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE AND NINE AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS
ACCESSIBILITY AND ENTRIES AND
PORCHES AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY AS THEY
PERTAIN TO RESIDENTIAL PORCHES
SECOND GRADE THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SUPPORTED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
>> SO I THINK THAT YEAH, THIS
IS STRAIGHTFORWARD.
>> IT'S A LITTLE UNUSUAL
BECAUSE WE'VE GOT A WINDOW
BECOMING A DOOR AND DOOR
BECOMING A WINDOW.
>> THE WINDOW WILL NOW BE UNDER
A ROOF LIKE THE WINDOW WILL BE
AT THE PORCH.
>> THE DOOR WILL JUST BE OUT
THERE AND I DID HAVE A QUESTION
FOR MARCO BEFORE WE GET TO
DISCUSSION.
MARCO, ARE YOU THERE?
YEP.
OK, SO I'M JUST CURIOUS YOU'LL
HAVE THIS BEAUTIFUL DOUBLE DOOR
THERE
.
YOU KNOW THAT IF YOU OPEN THOSE
DOORS AND STEP OUT OF THEM, IT
SEEMS LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE A
THIRTY INCH DROP OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT A COUPLE OF FEET
DOWN.
ARE YOU PLANNING ON IS THERE
ANYTHING ELSE YOU CAN TELL US
ABOUT PLANS FOR THE DOORS OR IS
THIS IS THIS REALLY EVERYTHING?
GOOD QUESTION.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, DOWN DOWN
THE LINE WE MIGHT WANT TO
EXTEND THAT CEMENT AREA SO THAT
THERE'S NOT AS MUCH OF A DROP.
>> I THINK WE'VE ALSO
TALKED
ABOUT EXTENDING THAT KIND
OF AWNING ROOF TO BE OVER THE
DOOR AS WELL.
BUT NOTHING IS AS PLANNED AT
THE MOMENT AND WE WOULD WE
WOULD GO THROUGH SEPARATE
APPROVALS FOR THOSE.
UNDERSTOOD.
OK, WELL THAT THAT I GUESS
MAKES MAKES THE STORY A LITTLE
MORE CLEAR IN OUR HEADS AT
LEAST AS TO WHERE WE'RE WHERE
WE'RE GOING WITH THIS.
SO THANKS FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
>> I DID SEE STEPH, IS THERE A
QUESTION ABOUT WHAT THE WINDOW
MATERIALS WERE?
>> IT'S HIS CLAD WOOD I BELIEVE
WE JUST DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
ALUMINUM CLAD OR I THINK IT
WOULD BE JUST SAYING THAT WOOD
SEEMS LIKE ENOUGH INFORMATION.
RIGHT.
OK, I JUST I HAVE IN MY NOTES
THAT YOU HAD THAT QUESTION BUT
OK, SOUNDS GOOD.
>> OK, SO NOW COMMISSIONERS' IS
THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THIS OR
HEARING THAT WHERE WE ALL SEEM
OK OR OK ALL RIGHT WELL THEN
LET'S JUST MOVE TO A VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED
SO THANK YOU FOR JOINING US,
MARKOE.
THANK YOU.
TAKE CARE.
APPRECIATE IT.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE MOVING ALONG
TO EF THREE THAT'S FIVE TO E
AND STREET SO WE'LL HAVE THE
STAFF REPORT FROM MARIJANA
WHENEVER YOU'RE READY PLEASE.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS FIVERR TO E END STREET
AND WE ARE ANOTHER WINDOW
APPLICATION AND THIS ONE IS
ANOTHER REAR WINDOW APPLICATION
ACTUALLY.
SO THIS HOUSE WAS BUILT
SOMETIME BETWEEN EIGHT NINETY
FOUR AND EIGHT NINETY SEVEN
BASED ON CITY DIRECTORIES.
IT IS A TWO AND A HALF STOREY
GABLE FRONT YARD WITH WOOD
SIDING AND A FULL WITH
COVERED FRONT PORCH.
A WIDOW ADELINE B LATHROP LIVED
AT THE HOUSE FOR MY LEASE
EIGHTEEN NINETY SEVEN UNTIL
NINETEEN FOURTEEN WHEN ANOTHER
WIDOW MOVED INTO THE HOUSE IN
NINETEEN THIRTY.
A STUDENT IS LIVING AT LISTED
AT THE HOUSE AND IT APPEARS
THAT AFTER THAT THE HOUSE WAS
OCCUPIED BY AT LEAST TWO
FAMILIES AT A TIME IN TERMS
OF PREVIOUS APPLICATIONS.
IN TWENTY EIGHT THE PREVIOUS
OWNER SUBMITTED AN APPLICATION
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION TO REPLACE SOME
WINDOWS ON THE FIRST STORY ON
THE STREET AFTER THE WORK WAS
COMPLETED THAT APPLICATION WAS
DENIED AND THEN THE WORK WAS
ORDERED TO BE REVERSED AND THEN
THAT SAME YEAR THAT PREVIOUS
OWNER ALSO REMOVED A CHIMNEY ON
THE HOUSE.
WE ARE LOCATED ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF EAST AND STREET BETWEEN
DIVISION AND STATE AND AS I
SAID, THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
FDA APPROVAL TO REMOVE ONE
THIRD FLOOR REAR WINDOW,
INCREASE THE OPENING SIZE AND
THEN INSTALL A NEW WINDOW FOR
EGRESS PURPOSES.
>> SO THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND THEN THESE ARE SOME
APPLICANT PHOTOS OF AGAIN THE
FRONT AND THEN THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE.
>> THE WINDOW THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IS A SMALL THIRD
STOREY ONE AND THE APPLICANT IS
PROPOSING TO REMOVE IT.
YOU CAN SEE THE DASHED LINE,
THE OUTLINE OF THE EXISTING
WINDOW AND THEN THE PROPOSED
NEW ONE WHICH IS IN THE
ENLARGED OPENING THE WINDOW
THAT IS THERE THE TRIM IS
HISTORIC WOOD TRIM UNCLEAR FROM
THE APPLICATION BUT WHEN WE
TALKED WITH THE APPLICANT AT
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE VISIT, IT
APPEARS THAT THE IT'S ASSUMED
THAT THE WINDOW IS ALSO
ORIGINAL.
>> THE APPLICANT OR THE OWNER I
GUESS SAID THAT IT WAS A WOOD
WINDOW IN THERE JUST A CLOSE UP
AND THEN YOU CAN SEE THIS IS
THE EXISTING FLOOR PLAN.
>> THIS IS THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE WHERE THE WINDOW WOULD BE
REMOVED AND THEN SIZE INCREASED
AND THE NEW WINDOW PUT IN AND
HERE ARE SOME PHOTOS FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE
AGAIN WE'RE AT
THE REAR OF THE HOUSE.
>> THAT'S THE WINDOW.
>> ALL RIGHT.
JILL HAS ALREADY READ STANDARD
TO AND FIVE AND NINE SO JUST A
FEW MORE FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT IS RECOMMENDED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES AS WELL AS
FEATURES THE SITE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION ONTO
THE BUILDING SITE THAT IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS
OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS,
COLOR OR TEXTURE OR WHICH
DESTROYS THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REMOVE OR RADICALLY CHANGE
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES OR
SITE FEATURES WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT IN THE OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER FOR WINDOWS
IT IS RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON
O'REAR OR OTHER NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS IF REQUIRED
BY THE NEW USE IT'S ALSO
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN.
I THINK THAT'S THE SAME ONE.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW DESIGN THAT IS
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING FOR
WINDOWS OR TO REMOVE A
CHARACTER DEFINING WINDOW.
>> IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INSTALL NEW WINDOWS THAT ARE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE
BUILDING'S HISTORIC APPEARANCE
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN WINDOWS IN GOOD
CONDITION.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO CHANGE
THE NUMBER, LOCATION, SIZE OR
GLAZING PATTERN OF WINDOWS BY
CUTTING NEW OPENINGS, BLOCKING
IN OR INSTALLING REPLACEMENT
WHICH DOES NOT FIT THE HISTORIC
OPENING.
IT'S ALSO NOT APPROPRIATE TO
REMOVE OR RADICALLY CHANGE A
WINDOW THAT IS IMPORTANT IN THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER THE
PROPERTY RIGHT.
>> SO PRETTY SIMPLE
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
I JUST A COUPLE OF OTHER THINGS
THAT WERE NOT INCLUDED IN THE
APPLICATION.
I'LL GO BACK
SO THE WE KNOW
THAT THE WINDOW IS GOING TO BE
REMOVED BUT WE DID NOT GET IN
THE APPLICATION THE MATERIALS
FOR THE NEW WINDOW WE DID TALK
ABOUT IT WITH THE OWNER ON SITE
AND THERE IS A CONDITION
INCLUDED IN THE MOTION THAT THE
NEW WINDOW SHOULD BE WOOD OR
CLAD WOOD.
SIMILARLY WE DIDN'T GET TOO
MUCH DETAIL ON THE TRIM.
IT DOES SAY TRIM TO MATCH
EXISTING ON THE DRAWINGS WE DID
TALK TO THE OWNER AGAIN ON SITE
AND THERE IS ALSO A CONDITION
IN THERE THAT THE WOOD THE NEW
TRIM SHOULD BE WOOD AND IT
SHOULD BE SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC TRIM.
SO THE MOTION ALSO INCLUDES THE
CONDITION THAT THE TRIM
DIMENSIONS ARE SUBMITTED TO
STAFF PRIOR TO APPROVAL PRIOR
TO BUILDING PERMIT APPROVAL,
THE NEW WINDOW BIGGER IT'LL BE
APPROXIMATELY THREE FEET BY
FIVE FEET.
IT'S FOR EGRESS AND THE
LOCATION AT THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE IS APPROPRIATE AND WILL
BE MINIMALLY VISIBLE AND THERE
I THINK THAT I THINK THAT'S
PRETTY MUCH IT.
EVERYTHING ELSE IS JUST
INCLUDED IN THE MOTION SO THAT
WE CAN GET SOME OF THOSE
DETAILS THAT WE DID TALK ABOUT
ON SITE BUT THAT WEREN'T
ACTUALLY INCLUDED IN THE
APPLICATION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK, NOW LET'S HEAR FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
>> YEAH.
AGAIN, MAYBE MUCH LIKE THE LAST
ONE PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
PROJECT NOT DO MUCH MORE TO ADD
.
YEAH I JUST SAY IT'S I MEAN IT
IS CHANGE THE WINDOW BUT IT'S
THE REAR OF THE HOUSE AND NOT
VISIBLE IN ANY WAY FROM THE
STREET.
>> THANK YOU BOTH FOR THAT.
NOW WE'LL HAVE THE APPLICANT
PRESENTATION.
SO WOULD THE APPLICANT I ASSUME
WE HAVE GOT A NAPKIN YOU KNOW
OK DO WE HAVE AN APPLICANT
HERE?
I DIDN'T THINK SO.
OK, SO I WILL CONTINUE WITHOUT
THE APPLICANT PRESENTATION.
WE'RE EXPECTING THE APPLICANT
WHEN YOU TALKED ON THURSDAY I
THINK HE WAS GOING TO BE HERE.
OK, WELL LET'S JUST MOVE AHEAD
.
WE'LL JUST GO RIGHT TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING THEN AND SO
WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS ITEM.
>> IT'S FIVE EAST AND STREET
AND I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANYONE HERE FOR THE PUBLIC
HEARING DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT
AND IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE
THERE'S ANYONE ONLINE.
>> SO WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM AND MOVE
ON TO THE MOTION.
AND I WOULD ASK IF AS THERE ARE
COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION POSSIBLY MR.
KAPLAN I'LL GIVE YOU GOT IT
RIGHT.
>> YES.
I MOVE THE COMMISSION TO ISSUE
A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION OF FIBER TO E AND
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
THE DIVISION STATE STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REMOVE A
THIRD FLOOR REAR WINDOW,
ENLARGE THE OPENING AND INSTALL
A REPLACEMENT WINDOW ON THE
CONDITIONS THAT ONE THE
REPLACEMENT WINDOW IS WOOD OR
CLAD WOOD AND TO THE NEW TRIM
IS WOOD AND SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC TRIM AND THE TRIM
DIMENSIONS ARE SUBMITTED TO
STAFF PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT
APPROVAL AS A CONDITION TO THE
WORK AS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT, TEXTURE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE REST OF THE BUILDING AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE AND NINE AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND WINDOWS AS WELL AS THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS YOU VERY
GOOD THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN AND
SUPPORTED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS
.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
I HAD A QUESTION ABOUT THE TRIM
BUT THAT WAS RESOLVED ON SITE
IT SOUNDS LIKE AND ENTERED INTO
THE MOTIONAL READY BY STAFF.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
AND IT SOUNDS LIKE EVERYONE
JUST AGREES THIS IS A REALLY
SIMPLE APPLICATION FOR EGRESS
PURPOSES.
SO LET'S JUST GO RIGHT TO A
VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN PROVED
OK
,SO NOW WE'RE MOVING RIGHT
ALONG HERE TO F FOUR IT'S FIVE
514 WEST WASHINGTON STREET AND
MARIJANA WHENEVER YOU'RE READY
STAFF REPORT PLEASE.
>> YEAH, SO THIS TWO STORY
GABAL FRONT AT HOME FIRST
APPEARED ON THE NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE SANDBORN MAP AS THE HOUSE
OF HENRY G GROU AND ACCORDING
TO MAPS AND ARIELS THE HOUSE
REMAINED LARGELY UNCHANGED
THROUGHOUT THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE ON THE SANDBORN
MAPS THEY SHOW THAT THE HOUSE
ORIGINALLY FEATURED A FULL WITH
FRONT PORCH.
AT SOME POINT THAT FRONT PORCH
WAS REMOVED AND REPLACED WITH A
HALF WITH VERSION AND THERE IS
A PHOTO A TWENTY EIGHT PHOTO AT
THE END OF THE STAFF REPORT
THAT SHOWS THAT NOT FULL WITH
FRONT PORCH BUT LUCKILY AT SOME
POINT THE FRONT PORCH OR LUCKLY
IN 2010 IT WAS RESTORED TO AN
APPROPRIATE FULL FRONT PORCH.
>> THERE IS ALSO A ONE STORY
REAR EDITION THAT WAS
CONSTRUCTED AFTER THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE THOUGH ITS
EXACT CONSTRUCTION DATE IS
UNKNOWN.
THERE WAS A BUILDING PERMIT
SUBMITTED IN NINETEEN SIXTY
EIGHT FOR ROOF REPAIRS OVER AN
EXISTING CONDITION.
SO ASSUMING THAT THAT REAR
ADDITION WAS BUILT SOMETIME
BETWEEN NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT
WHERE IT WAS NOT SHOWN ON THAT
LAST SANDBORN MAP AND THEN
NINETEEN SIXTY EIGHT WHEN THAT
BUILDING PERMIT WAS SUBMITTED.
>> SO AFTER THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE SOMEWHERE MID
NINETEEN HUNDREDS THERE IS A
GARAGE ON THE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF THE PARCEL.
HISTORICALLY THIS WAS A
LOCATION OF AN ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE BUT UNCLEAR RIGHT NOW
IF THAT IS THE CURRENT GARAGE
OR THE WHETHER THE CURRENT
GARAGE IS THE ORIGINAL
STRUCTURE.
THE SITE IS LOCATED ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF WEST WASHINGTON
STREET WEST OF THIRD STREET
SOUTH OF WEST HERE AND EAST
OF MURRAY AVENUE AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A REAR
SECOND STORY ADDITION ABOVE
THAT EXISTING REAR ONE STOREY
NONCONTRIBUTING EDITION.
SO HERE WE HAVE THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE
.
THIS IS THE WEST SIDE HERE ON
THE LEFT EAST SIDE ON THE RIGHT
IT'S ANOTHER VIEW OF THAT EAST
SIDE YOU CAN SEE SO THIS IS THE
ORIGINAL HOUSE AND THEN THIS IS
THAT ONE STOREY ADDITION BACK
THERE IN THIS PROPOSED ADDITION
IS GOING TO BE LOCATED
SOMEWHERE WHERE THE CURSOR IS
RIGHT NOW.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN SEE
THAT.
HERE'S ANOTHER VIEW OF THAT
REAR EDITION THEN HERE IS THAT
ORIGINAL GABLE AND THEN THERE'S
GOING TO BE THAT PROPOSED
EDITION RIGHT ON TOP OF HERE
AND BELOW THE HISTORIC GABLE
ROOF.
>> AND HERE WE HAVE A LOVELY
RENDERING SO REAR OF THE HOUSE
AS IT EXISTS NOW JUST THAT ONE
STOREY EDITION WITH THAT FLAT
ROOF AND THEN HERE YOU CAN SEE
THIS LITTLE GABLE ONE HUNDRED
AND EIGHTEEN SQUARE FEET AND
YOU CAN SEE HERE FROM THE PLAN
C THE EXISTING HOUSE YOU HAVE
THAT REAR EDITION AND THEN IN
YELLOW IS THE PROPOSED SECOND
FLOOR ADDITIONS THAT WE ARE
DISCUSSING TONIGHT.
>> IT IS NINE FEET IN LENGTH
AND FOURTEEN FEET TEN INCHES IN
SO FOUR PLANS THEN EXISTING
FIRST FLOOR PLAN AND THEN WE
HAVE THE SECOND FLOOR PLAN.
THEN YOU CAN SEE THAT FLAT ROOF
AND THEN THIS ADDITION HERE
THIS IS SOME DEMO.
SO WE WILL BE AS PART OF THE
DEMOLITION THERE EXISTS HERE A
WINDOW THAT IS PRESUMED TO BE A
HISTORIC WINDOW AND THEN A DOOR
HERE THAT IS LIKELY NOT
HISTORIC BECAUSE THIS EDITION
DID NOT EXIST ROOF PLAN.
SO YOU CAN SEE NEW GABLE RIGHT
HERE.
HERE'S SOME ELEVATION DRAWINGS
JUST TO KIND OF HELP SO YOU CAN
SEE THAT THIS NEW PROPOSED
ADDITION THE GABLE IS
UNDERNEATH THE HISTORIC GABLE.
BUT SINCE IT'S SLIGHTLY OFFSET
AT THE MAXIMUM I THINK IT'S
ABOUT FOUR FEET GETS A LITTLE
BIT CLOSER WHERE IT'S OFFSET
HAVE MATERIALS ON THE DRAWINGS
BUT I'LL GO THROUGH THAT WHEN I
GO THROUGH MY NOTES AND SEE
WHERE THE HOUSE IS INSET SO IT
WON'T BE VISIBLE FROM THE RIGHT
OF WAY.
SOME THE MORE EXISTING AND THEN
PROPOSED AND THEN HERE IS JUST
AN ELEVATION VIEW OF THAT DOOR
AND WINDOW THAT EXIST ON THE
SECOND FLOOR THAT WILL BE
REMOVED AS PART OF THIS
CONSTRUCTION.
>> SO THERE WILL BE NEW WINDOWS
ON THE ADDITION THERE'S GOING
TO BE TWO ARE RIGHT ON THE
REAR.
SO HERE'S JUST SOME
OF APPLICANTS PHOTOS OF THE
EXISTING WINDOWS AND THEN THE
NEW WINDOWS.
SO YOU'LL HAVE THE THREE OVER
ONE SO TO KIND OF MATCH BUT THE
TRIM WILL BE DIFFERENTIATED AND
THEY WILL BE CLAD WOULD SOME
MORE RENDERINGS AND THEN THE
BACK VIEW AND HERE ARE SOME
APPLICANT PHOTOS OF THE HOUSE
MEMBERS IS JUST A BETTER PHOTO
OF YOU OF WHAT IS THERE RIGHT
NOW?
THAT DOOR IN THAT WINDOW AGAIN
WILL BE INSET AT BOTH OF THE
CORNERS OF THE HISTORIC HOUSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE READ TO WE READ NINE WE READ
TEN FOUR FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR FOR THE
ADDITIONS.
IT IS RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT
A NEW EDITION SO THAT THERE IS
THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS AND SO
THAT CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES ARE NOT OBSCURED
DAMAGE OR DESTROYED.
>> IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
LOCATE THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
EDITION AT THE REAR OR ON AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING AND LIMITED
SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATIONSHIP
TO THE HISTORIC AND TO DESIGN
NEW EDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES IT CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
ATTACH A NEW EDITION SO THAT
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
DUPLICATE THE EXACT FORM
MATERIAL STYLE AND DETAILING
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDINGS SO
THAT NEW ADDITIONS DOES NOT
APPEAR TO BE PART OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING NOT
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN A NEW
EDITION SO THAT SIZE AND SCALE
ARE OUT OF PROPORTION WITH THE
HISTORIC BUILDING IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO AND FOR BUILDING
SITE RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES AS WELL AS
FEATURES OF THE SITE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER NOT
RECOMMENDED TO RADICALLY TO
REMOVE OR RADICALLY CHANGE
BUILDINGS AND OR FEATURES
ESPECIALLY THOSE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER FOR ROOFS.
IT IS RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE ROOFS IN
THEIR FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE
FEATURES THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING AND
NOT RECOMMENDED TO RADICALLY
CHANGE DAMAGE OR DESTROY ROOFS
WHICH ARE IMPORTANT AND
CHARACTER DEFINING FROM THE
INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ALL
EDITIONS APPROPRIATE TO PLACE A
NEW EDITION ON AND ON CHARACTER
DEFINING OR INCANS AMBIGUOUS
ELEVATION AND TO LIMIT THE SIZE
AND SCALE OF THE ADDITIONS IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN A NEW ADDITION IN A
MANNER THAT MAKES IT CLEAR WHAT
IS HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW
ALSO APPROPRIATE TO LIMIT THE
SIZE AND SCALE OF THAT ADDITION
AND NOT APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN.
IN ADDITION THAT APPEARS OLDER
OR THE SAME AGE AS THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING AND THEN LAST ONE FOR
ROOFS.
>> IT'S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN,
MAINTAIN, RETAIN AND MAINTAIN
ORIGINAL HISTORIC ROOFING.
SO JUST A FEW MORE NOTES.
I'LL GO BACK TO THE PICTURES.
>> STOP ON A RENDERING THAT'S A
GOOD ONE.
>> SO CURRENTLY THE HOUSE HAS A
CEMENT BOARD SIDING WOOD TRIM
AND THEN A GABLE ROOF WITH
ASPHALT, SHINGLES, SHINGLES,
THE BRIDGE THERE'S A BRICK
CHIMNEY THERE AND MOST OF THE
WINDOWS THAT EXIST ON THE
HISTORIC BUILDING DO APPEAR TO
BE HISTORIC AND THE POST
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE STOREY
ADDITION HAS A MIX OF WINDOWS
AND HAS A FLAT ROOF.
THAT RUBBER ROOF WILL BE
REPLACED
AS PART OF THE
CONSTRUCTION REPLACED IN KIND
SO THIS IS ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTEEN SQUARE FEET WITH A
GABLE ROOF.
IT'S GOING TO BE RECTANGULAR IN
SHAPE AND INSET ON BOTH SIDES
AND THEN LOWER THAN THE ROOF.
LIKE I SAID IT'S 11 FEET IN
HEIGHT FROM THE TOP OF THE
FIRST STOREY AND THE ANGLE
OF THE GABLE DOES MATCH THE
ANGLE OF THE HISTORIC ROOF
GABLE FOR MATERIALS ON THE
ADDITION THE SIDING WILL BE SIX
INCH HORIZONTAL CEMENT BOARD
AND THE THE GABLE ROOF WILL
HAVE ASPHALT SINGLE ROOF THE
PIECE AND AGES AND ESSES
ASPHALT SHINGLES, CEMENT BOARDS
AND FASHION THE NORTH ELEVATION
OF THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS WILL
HAVE THOSE THREE OVER ONE CLAD
WOOD WINDOWS THAT I SHOWED AND
THE CAPS IN CASING WILL BE
BORRA THE NEW WINDOW CASING
WILL BE FOUR INCHES WIDE SO
SLIGHTLY NARROWER THAN THE
HISTORIC WHICH IS FOUR AND A
HALF INCHES.
>> SO THE ADDITION SECOND
STOREY OVER THAT
NONCONTRIBUTING ONE STORY
EDITION.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE VISIBLE
FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A MINIMAL
IMPACT ON THE HISTORIC HOUSE
SINCE THE EDITION IS GOING TO
BE OVER THAT IN NINETEEN FORTY
FIVE REAR EDITION ALL REALLY IS
GOING TO BE THAT WHAT IS
REMOVED OF THE EXISTING WINDOW
AND DOOR THERE.
BUT LIKE I SAID THE WOOD DOOR
IS NOT IN A HISTORIC LOCATION
AND ACCORDING TO THE DRAWINGS
THE HOUSE HAS APPROXIMATELY
FOUR AREA OF APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY
SQUARE FEET OF WHICH
APPROXIMATE ONE THOUSAND EIGHTY
ONE WERE BUILT BEFORE NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE.
SO WITH THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THIS SECOND STORY ADDITION
THAT WILL REPRESENT A TOTAL
FORTY FIVE PERCENT INCREASE.
SO UNDER THAT FIFTY PERCENT IN
THE TOTAL POST NINETEEN FORTY
FOUR FLOOR AREA AND THERE WILL
BE NO CHANGE IN FOOTPRINT
BECAUSE THIS IS A SECOND STORY
ADDITION.
>> SO OVERALL THE ADDITION IS
APPROPRIATELY SIZED SIMPLE AND
DESIGN AND NOT VISIBLE FROM THE
RIGHT OF WAY WITH MINIMAL
IMPACT ON THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE.
>> SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL THANKS.
THANK YOU.
NO PLEASE HAVE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
SURE YEAH.
I FOUND TO BE A VERY SMALL
DISCRETE PROJECT OF THE REAR
EDITION IS DEEP AND WIDE AND
TALL ENOUGH.
WE'RE GOING TO THE BACKYARD.
THERE IS A BIT OF A.
IT'S EVEN HARDER TO SEE THE
DOOR AND THE WINDOW IN THE
FIRST PLACE UNLESS YOU'RE IN IT
TO THE FAR END OF THE OF THE
FENCE LINE.
I DO APPRECIATE ALSO AT THE
ADDITION IS BELOW THE THE
EXISTING LINE.
YEAH I LIKE THAT.
I THINK THE THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE OLD EDITION THAT'S
ALREADY THERE SERVES TO SORT
OF REALLY MASK FROM THE
PEDESTRIAN LEVEL AT GRADE ITS
IT WILL BE YOU KNOW THIS WON'T
BE OBVIOUS EVEN WHEN YOU'RE
STANDING IN THE BACKYARD IS
BECAUSE THE THE WALL OF THE
OF THE OLD EDITION IS RIGHT
THERE AND AND THIS IS SET BACK
FROM THAT EVEN FROM THE STREET
OR ANY OTHER PUBLIC VIEW IT'S
IT'S IT'S VISIBLE AT ALL AND I
ACTUALLY KNOW MY OPINION JUST
IT I THINK THAT THE NEW EDITION
HELPS CONTEXTUALIZE THE OLD
EDITION ENTITLED TO THE HOUSE
BETTER.
I THINK IT'S IT'S A GREAT THING
.
>> GREAT POINT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU BOTH.
OK, SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION WITH THE
APPLICANT.
PLEASE COME FORWARD AT THIS
TIME PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU
HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK ON WHAT YOU'VE HEARD SO
FAR.
>> MY NAME IS CATHERINE FILMORE
.
I LIVE I REPRESENT THE BUILDER
NOT THE OWNER.
I'M MY HOME ADDRESS IS FIVE
NINETY TWO LAKEVIEW AND UPPER
YEAH.
SO I THE HOMEOWNER CAME TO US
THEY'RE LOOKING TO CREATE A
BETTER BEDROOM SITUATION FOR
THEIR YOUNG DAUGHTER WHO IS I
BELIEVE ABOUT SEVEN YEARS OLD
THIS ROOM WITH THAT DOOR OUT
ONTO THE ROOF WITH NO RAILING
ON IT FEELS UNSAFE AS IT IS.
SO THE IDEA IS TO END HER SO
THEY HAVE HER IN A MIDDLE ROOM
WHICH IS A VERY TINY ROOM AND
WITH A REAL MINIMAL CLOSET.
AND SO THE IDEA IS TO GIVE HER
A SAFER ROOM WITH PROPER EGRESS
NOT A DOOR BUT WINDOWS AND AREA
WHERE SHE CAN HAVE A CLOSET, A
BED AND A LITTLE PLAY AREA FOR
HERSELF.
SO THE OTHER THING I GUESS I
CAN SAY IS WE DID SHIFT THIS
ADDITION.
YOU MAY KNOW WE ARE ONLY INSET
EIGHT INCHES ON THAT EAST SIDE
RATHER THAN THE EIGHTEEN INCHES
AND THAT IS FOR TWO MAIN
REASONS.
ONE IS TO PRESERVE THE HISTORIC
WINDOW, THE ONE REMAINING
HISTORIC ONE IF WE SHIFTED THIS
IN THE EIGHTEEN INCHES THAT
WERE REQUIRED WE WOULD HAVE HAD
TO DEMO THAT OTHER HISTORIC
WINDOW AND WE DIDN'T WANT TO DO
THAT AND ALSO THE WHERE THE
WALLS OF THE NEW EDITION A LINE
NICELY WITH THE STRUCTURE BELOW
IT SO WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
PRESERVE MORE OF THE INTERIOR
STRUCTURE BELOW IT EVEN THOUGH
IT'S YOU KNOW POST NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE IT HELPS WITH THE
PROJECT IN GENERAL TO KEEP AS
MUCH OF IT IS INTACT AS
POSSIBLE.
SO THAT'S GOOD.
>> THANK YOU CATHERINE.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT COMMISSION.
OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IN THAT CASE WE'LL MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING SO A PUBLIC
HEARING IS NOW OPEN FOR THIS
THIS ITEM IT'S 514 WEST
WASHINGTON STREET.
>> I DON'T SEE ANYONE
APPROACHING THE PODIUM HERE.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE ONLINE?
THERE'S NO ONE ONLINE SO THAT'S
IT FOR THE PUBLIC HEARING.
I WILL SAY THAT.
YEAH.
WHAT'S GOING ON?
>> THE OWNER IS ON ZOOM TOO.
SO IF WE HAVE QUESTIONS FOR THE
OWNER, THEY'RE ONLINE.
>> OK, WELL DOES THE OWNER WANT
TO HER NAME IS JULIE.
>> HI JULIE.
IF YOU IF YOU'D LIKE TO MAKE
ANY COMMENTS NOW WOULD BE THE
TIME TO DO IT.
IF NOT, THAT'S TOTALLY OK ALSO
NO I DON'T HAVE ANY COMMENTS
JUST THANKS CATHERINE.
>> SO GREAT.
WELL THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
APPRECIATE HEARING FROM YOU BUT
WE'LL MOVE ON SO THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION THAT'S CLOSE
WE'LL MOVE ON TO MAKING
EMOTION.
SO IS THERE A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
BESIDE HIM?
>> THANK YOU.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATE FOR THE
APPLICATION OF 514 WEST
WASHINGTON ST. A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A SECOND STORY ADDITION ON THE
REAR AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
BUILDING SITE AND ROOFS THE THE
INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
AND ROOFS.
SECOND CRANE THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
YEAH, I'M NOT SEEING ANY
DISCUSSION.
I THINK THAT THIS IS BECAUSE
THIS IS A VERY SIMPLE PROJECT
AND ALSO THE APPLICATION, YOU
KNOW, IS VERY CLEAR SO WE KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT'S GOING ON HERE.
SO WE REALLY APPRECIATE THAT
BOTH OF THOSE THINGS AND SEEING
NO QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS WE'RE
GOING TO GO RIGHT TO THE VOTE
SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THAT WAS IT FOR HEARINGS.
SO EVERYONE JUST TAKE A DEEP
BREATH BECAUSE WE'VE GOT SOME
NEW BUSINESS HERE.
WE'RE STILL GOING THROUGH THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
DO RIGHT NOW.
WELL, THIS IS WHERE THE LAST
CHAPTER FOR NOW REALLY?
YEAH.
FOR NOW.
>> FOR NOW.
WHY DO YOU SAY FOR NOW YOU KNOW
YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN.
YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT MIGHT COME
BACK.
WE MIGHT NOT BUT WE WILL COME
BACK WE'LL TALK ABOUT DRAFT BUT
I DON'T WANT TO GET ANY HOPES
UP THAT WE'RE DONE FOREVER.
>> SO, UM I'LL SHARE MY SCREEN
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO CHAPTER SEVEN THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
I THINK THAT GENERALLY THE
BIGGEST THING THAT I THINK WE
HAVE TO THINK ABOUT IS THE
REFERENCES TO THE DOWNTOWN
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> SO THOSE ARE STILL STILL
APPLY.
>> THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD WAS
RECENTLY ELIMINATED SO NOW
STAFF WILL BE DOING THAT FOR
FOR AND FOR ALL DOWNTOWN
PROJECTS.
STAFF WILL BE REFERRING TO THE
DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES.
UM, SO THEY ARE RELEVANT BUT
OBVIOUSLY THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
IS HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER
THE DOWNTOWN SO JUST MAKING
SURE THAT THE LANGUAGE IN HERE
IS CLEAR KIND OF WHAT APPLIES
WHEN AND WITH A CHARACTER
OVERLAY DISTRICT THOSE AREAS TO
MAKING IT CLEAR
HOW ALL
OF THESE INTERACT THAT HISTORIC
DISTRICT IS NUMBER ONE AND THAT
YOU CAN REFER TO THE OTHER THE
OTHER FOR THE CHARACTERS AND
THE DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES
FOR OTHER THINGS.
SO I THINK THAT'S JUST KIND
OF A GENERAL MAKING SURE THAT
THAT LANGUAGE IS CLEAR AND CAN
I JUST ASK A QUESTION THERE?
SO I WAS KIND OF FAMILIAR WITH
THE PROCESS WHEN THERE WAS THE
BOARD WHERE LIKE A DEVELOPER
WOULD GO TO A BOARD AND THEN
THERE'D BE MAYBE
RECOMMENDATIONS OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT BASED ON THESE
GUIDELINES.
SO WHAT CAN YOU JUST BRIEFLY
LIKE WHAT'S THE NEW PROCESS NOW
THAT THERE'S NO BOARD SO THAT
THAT HASN'T BEEN DONE YET SO I
MIGHT BE THERE MIGHT BE SOME
THINGS THAT CHANGE BUT THE
INTENTION IS NOW THAT THE STAFF
WILL INCLUDE THAT AS PART
OF THEIR FINAL STAFF REPORT
WHEN IT GOES TO PLANNING
COMMISSION OR COUNCIL OR
WHOEVER IS THE FINAL APPROVING
BODY, THAT STAFF WILL MAKE
THOSE REFERENCES AND WE'LL TALK
TO THE DEVELOPER ALONG THE WAY
ABOUT HOW THINGS HOW THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES DOWNTOWN DESIGN
GUIDELINES MAY HELP THEIR
PROJECT GUIDE BECAUSE THE
DEVELOPER WOULD HAVE TO GO
THROUGH PLANNING PERMISSION
POSSIBLY FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT.
SO IF THEY DO THEIR STAFF THEY
ARE THE STAFF CAN REFER TO THIS
DOCUMENT.
>> OKAY, THANK YOU.
YEAH, ALL RIGHT.
>> SO I'LL JUST START SCROLLING
THROUGH.
I THINK GENERALLY KIND
OF SIMILAR THINGS FOR CLEANING
UP LANGUAGE AND CLEANING
PICTURES WHILE WE'RE ASKING
GENERAL QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
I DID HAVE ANOTHER ONE.
DOES IT GET UPDATED VERY OFTEN
OR IS IT WHAT YOU WOULD EXPECT
IT DOES IN THE DOWNTOWN ONE?
>> I DON'T THINK THEY'VE BEEN
UPDATED SINCE THEY WERE
PUBLISHED.
>> I WAS CONCERNED THAT WE WERE
GOING TO BE REFERENCING A
DOCUMENT THAT MAYBE WAS
CHANGING BUT AND MY ASSUMPTION
WAS THAT IT'S PROBABLY NOT.
>> YEAH.
AND I DON'T BELIEVE THERE ARE
ANY PLANS TO UPDATE THEM AT
LEAST RIGHT NOW.
OK, OK SO GENERAL PRINCIPLES
YOU JUST KIND OF GENERAL THINGS
TO BE THINKING ABOUT WHEN
YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT NEW
CONSTRUCTION AND GENERALLY THIS
CHAPTER FOCUSES ON COMMERCIAL
AND DOWNTOWN AREAS HENCE THE
DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINE FOCUS
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
GUIDELINES FOR ALL NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN
SHOULD IT BE
SPECIFICALLY STATED THAT IT
SHOULD NOT BE TOO CLOSE OR
LOOMING OVER ANY CONTRIBUTING
BUILDINGS OR IS IT IMPLIED
ALREADY IN TO TALK ABOUT
LOOMING YOU KNOW, LIKE THE NOT
APPROPRIATE IT'S GOT SOME YOU
CAN FIND IT IN THEIR WHERE IT'S
LIKE OUT OF SCALE OR OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE DESTROY THE
POWER.
YEAH BUT I JUST SO I'M CLEAR
NOT APPROPRIATE ABOUT HEIGHT
AND IT'S A TOUGH KNOW BECAUSE
YOU WOULD JUST SAY LIKE WELL
THAT CAN'T BE TOO BIG BUT IS
THAT YOU KNOW I'M SAYING THAT'S
NOT REALLY HOW WE TALK.
WE SAY STUFF IT HAS TO BE YOU
KNOW, OUT OF SCALE OR YOU KNOW
,I JUST BUT THEN WHEN WE'RE
DISCUSSING WE'RE ALWAYS
DISCUSSING IS IT TOO BIG?
I MEAN YEAH.
>> YOU SO OR IS IT TOO CLOSE TO
IS ANOTHER ONE WHERE A LOT
OF TIMES THAT'S KIND OF YOU
KNOW WRAPPED UP IN THERE.
>> I AGREE THAT THERE SHOULD BE
ADDRESS.
>> YEAH OK GOOD WE JUST HAVE TO
SAY THEM IN A LANGUAGE THAT IS
HISTORIC PRESERVATION ARE YOU
MORE CONCERNED ABOUT COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS OR NEIGHBORHOODS OR
BOTH?
>> WE'VE HAD EXAMPLES OF YEAH
YEAH OK.
>> AND THIS IS THE PLACE FOR
THEM SEPARATELY THEY ARE
SEPARATE THE NEXT TWO SECTIONS
ARE SEPARATE.
>> YEAH LIKE THIS IS THERE'S A
THIS IS THE IT'S A LITTLE
CONFUSING BECAUSE THIS IS
DIFFERENT THAN OTHER CHAPTERS
BUT THIS PAGE IS LIKE A GENERAL
FOR ALL OF THEM RIGHT THEN THE
NEXT IT SPLITS SO IS THERE ANY
BENEFIT TO JUST HAVING TO AND
NOT HAVING THIS SORT OF BRIDGE
SECTION?
>> WOULD IT BE CLEARER FOR ME
TO HAVE TO GO LAMBDAS?
YOU KNOW, I GOT A NEW THING AM
I RESIDENTIAL OR AM I BUSINESS
AND YOU JUST GO TO THAT WE
COULD THERE'D BE A LITTLE BIT
SOMEWHERE BUT MAYBE THEY'D BE
REPETITIVE BECAUSE THESE THINGS
ON THIS PAGE WOULD THEN BE
REPEATED FOR BOTH.
>> BUT ACTUALLY I'M NOT SURE
THAT PEOPLE THAT ARE BUILDING A
RESIDENTIAL EDITION ARE LOOKING
AT BOTH RIGHT NOW.
YEAH, BECAUSE GOOD IDEA.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
BECAUSE YOU'RE JUST GOING TO
LIKE WHERE DO I FIT THIS IT I'M
GOING TO GO RIGHT DOWN TO NEW
RESIDENTIAL I AM ALL RIGHT SO
WE'LL THINK ABOUT LOOMING AND
HAVE TO BE REDUNDANT.
>> YEAH UM FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
AND RESIDENTIAL SETTINGS UM
JUST SEEMED A LITTLE BIT
UNBALANCED BETWEEN APPROPRIATE
AND NOT APPROPRIATE.
>> YEAH I AGREE WITH THAT I I
THINK THAT WE COULD SEE A LOT
MORE HERE.
WELL YOU'RE GOING TO ADD
LOOMING THERE RIGHT IS TOO TALL
NO OTHER WAY SCALE I MEAN
THAT'S NO WAY TO PUT IT RIGHT
THERE.
YEAH THAT WAS MY STAB.
>> YEAH HE S S YEAH AND YEAH
THERE COULD BE A LOT THERE
RIGHT.
>> YEAH AND I MEAN IT MIGHT END
UP BEING REPETITIVE BUT I THINK
WHAT I WOULD WHAT I WAS
THINKING WHEN I SAW THIS WAS
LIKE WHAT A LOT OF THE THINGS
THAT WE SAY ABOUT EDITIONS NEW
EDITIONS WOULD PROBABLY YOU
COULD PROBABLY LOOK AT THAT
LIST AND TAKE A LOT.
>> YEAH.
WITH JUST A NEW BUILDING.
YEAH
BUT JUST YEAH THEY WOULD
JUST BE THE GENERAL THICKSET
CONSIDER TO BE NOT APPROPRIATE
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES JUST A
COUPLE CLARIFICATION'S AND THEN
WE GET TO NEW CONSTRUCTION AND
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL SETTINGS
ESSENTIALLY ALL THE DOWNTOWN UM
SO AGAIN JUST NOTE ABOUT THE
DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES IN
THE CHARACTER AREAS UM I THINK
THIS MAP CAN BE BETTER
THAT
THAT'S A GENERAL A GENERAL
COMMENT.
>> YEAH.
IS THAT THE MAP FROM THE
BEGINNING OF THE YEAH.
THIS THIS IS THE FIRST CHAPTER
IT'S IN THE FIRST CHAPTER YEAH
.
IT'S JUST DO WE NEED IT HERE.
>> IT'S IN THE FIRST CHAPTER I
DON'T THINK WE NEED IT HERE.
I THINK IS IT IS IT USEFUL IF
WE DO A MAP THAT HAS THE
CHARACTER OVERLAY DISTRICTS AND
THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS OR DO
YOU THINK THAT STARTS TO
CONFUSE PEOPLE.
>> YEAH I HATE TO GET INTO
ZONING.
I THINK THIS IS HELPFUL.
I'M JUST QUESTIONING WHETHER IT
SHOULD BE HERE UP IN THE FRONT
CHAPTER.
>> I MEAN IT IS IN THE FRONT
CHAPTER SO IT'S IT'S NOT
NECESSARILY IT WHEN WE GO WHEN
WE GO THROUGH THE HISTORIES
OF ALL OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS IT'S THERE.
SO I DON'T THINK IT'S NECESSARY
HERE.
I THINK IT'S KIND OF A BAD MAP.
SO IF THE NEW ONE THE NEW ONE
THAT WE GET FOR THE FRONT LOOKS
REALLY GOOD, THEN WE CAN REPEAT
IT IF NOT NOT NEEDED BY THIS
POINT IN THE DOCUMENT THEY KNOW
WHERE THEIR BUILDING IS BUT
IT'S NICE THAT WE'RE SAYING
THAT IN THIS AREA YOU SHOULD
THINK ABOUT THESE CERTAIN I
MEAN THAT'S I DIDN'T EVEN
RECALL THAT THAT WAS IN THE
STANDARDS BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
THE APPLICANTS DON'T TALK ABOUT
IT THAT MUCH BECAUSE I THINK
THEY'RE JUST WELL, EVERY ONCE
IN A WHILE WE'LL GET A BIG
PROJECT THEN WE'LL MAYBE TALK
ABOUT IT IN GENERAL THEY DON'T
TALK ABOUT THIS SECTION OF THE
STANDARDS.
YEAH, THIS THIS DEFINITELY
SPEAKS TO LIKE SITE PLAN
PROJECT BIGGER DEFINITELY
BIGGER PROJECTS AS I THINK WHAT
THIS IS THIS CHAPTER IS MORE
GEARED TOWARDS OR AT LEAST THAT
SEEMS THAT'S HOW IT SEEMS BASED
ON HOW IT'S WRITTEN AND THE
INFORMATION THAT IT INCLUDES.
>> YEAH YEAH SURE WE GET
COMPLEX.
>> YEAH.
SO THE NEXT LITTLE BIT THE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE DOWNTOWN
DESIGN GUIDELINES WHEN THEY
WERE ORIGINALLY WRITTEN KIND
OF CHOSE THE CHOSE A SPECIFIC
DESIGN DOWNTOWN DESIGN
GUIDELINES THAT WOULD BE YOU
KNOW MOST OF USE IN WHEN
THINKING ABOUT DESIGNING IN
THOSE AREAS THAT ARE BOTH
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND DOWNTOWN
.
SO I THINK JUST SOME GENERAL
THINGS THAT SITE SITE PLANNING
,BUILDING MACING BUILDING
ELEMENTS NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT
THEY ARE DEFINED AT SOME POINT
IN THE GLOSSARY OR APPENDIX
OF SOME SORT.
>> I THINK THEY'RE THEY'RE KIND
THIS KIND OF MORE GENERAL I
DON'T KNOW IF THEY NECESSARILY
JUST APPLY TO THE DOWNTOWN
AREAS BUT MAYBE THEY DO
IN
TERMS OF ZONING I THINK I WOULD
BE MORE I WOULD KIND OF REVERSE
THE ORDER.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, ONE TALK
ABOUT IN COMMERCIAL HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THE HISTORIC DESIGN
GUIDELINES ARE WHAT APPLY TO
THE DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES
MIGHT HELP INSTEAD OF STARTING
WITH ALL THESE MIGHT BE HELPFUL
BUT YEAH, AND YOU KNOW SO I
ALWAYS ALWAYS PUT THE NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS FINAL.
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
NEW CONSTRUCTION IN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS MUST FOLLOW THE MM
HMM.
>> YEAH.
MAKE SURE WE MAKE SURE THAT THE
HISTORIC ALWAYS GOES FIRST.
YEAH.
STRONGER AND SORT OF ACTIVE
.
>> SO THEN DOES IT MAKE SENSE
TO FOR THIS TO BE A DIFFERENT
CHAPTER?
IT WAS A LITTLE CONFUSING WHEN
I WAS READING THROUGH IT WHERE
I WAS LIKE HERE'S NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN AND LIKE THE
APPROPRIATE NOT APPROPRIATE AND
THEN THIS I THIS ISN'T REALLY I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THIS IS IS IT.
>> IT'S HELPFUL INFORMATION.
YEAH.
IS LIKE THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
STANDARD IS IT.
>> IT'S DIFFERENT RIGHT.
DIFFERENT THAN THE STANDARDS
IT'S IT'S VERY I GUESS IT'S
LIKE SHORTHAND IS HELPFUL.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THE WOULD
THE DEVELOPER BE FAMILIAR WITH
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> THAT'S THAT'S PROPOSING THEY
YEAH.
>> I MEAN THEY'RE WORKING
DOWNTOWN.
THEY SHOULD BE FAMILIAR WITH
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES AND THEY
SHOULD BE FAMILIAR WITH THAT.
>> RIGHT.
THE THINGS THAT I FEEL LIKE
THAT'S PROBABLY WHERE THEY GO
TO FIRST IS THE ZONING STUFF
BEFORE THEY THINK ABOUT THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT STUFF.
SO THEY SHOULD BE THEY SHOULD
THEY SHOULD KNOW ABOUT IT.
>> AND I GUESS THAT'S THE KIND
OF CONFUSING PART IS THEY
INTERACT BUT HOW MUCH AND IN
WHAT WAYS AND I DON'T I DON'T
KNOW THAT IT'S EXACTLY CLEAR.
I MEAN MAYBE THIS SECTION WE
KIND OF BREAK OFF AND THAT
BECOMES AN APPENDIX OF LIKE IF
YOU INSTEAD OF A CHAPTER YOU
KNOW, IT'S THIS IS HELPFUL.
>> HAVE YOU EXAMPLES OF WHERE
THERE WAS A CONFLICT BETWEEN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES AND THE DOWNTOWN
GUIDELINES?
>> I MEAN IS THAT IS IS THERE
CONTENTION THERE ARE THERE
CONTRADICTIONS OR CONFUSION?
>> WELL, COMMENT ABOUT THIS IS
SUSTAINABILITY SECTION WHERE
LIKE IT ACTUALLY CALLS THAT OUT
IN THIS FURTHER DOWN IN THIS
DOCUMENT HERE IT SAYS LIKE
THERE'S GOING TO BE CONFLICT
THERE AND YEAH.
>> YEAH YEAH.
I MEAN I THINK WE SHOULD BE IN
THIS CHAPTER IS THERE ARE THESE
YOU KNOW THIS IS WHAT APPLIES
THIS MAY BE HELPFUL BUT IF
THERE'S CONTRADICTION THIS IS
WHAT APPLIES.
>> I LIKE THE IDEA OF EITHER
MAKING IT A FOOTNOTE OR MAKING
IT AN APPENDIX THAT SAYS FOR
FURTHER INFORMATION THE
DOWNTOWN YOU KNOW, DESIGNING
THE DOWNTOWN GUIDELINES
ESPECIALLY THESE AREAS THAT WE
YOU PULL OUT HERE AND YEAH,
MARIJANA AND I TALKED ABOUT A
LOT OF THIS NEEDS TO JUST GO
AWAY.
THERE ARE THINGS HERE THAT WE
DON'T NEED IN HERE.
>> IT'S JUST CONFUSING.
YEAH.
I DON'T WANT TO GET RID OF IT
COMPLETELY BECAUSE I HAVE USED
IT YOU KNOW IT SAID TO PEOPLE
LOOK YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> I THINK IT'S PROBABLY MOSTLY
I THINK FORMATING IS BECAUSE
THE WAY THAT IT'S IT'S OUTLINED
OR THE WAY THAT IT LOOKS ON THE
PAGE LIKE YOU THINK THAT IT'S
THE SAME AS THE DESIGN LIKE IF
THEY GO INTO ALL THESE DETAILS
THERE'S THE BULLET POINT LIKE
YOU THINK OH I NEED TO BE
PAYING ATTENTION TO THIS IN YOU
KNOW IN A WAY THAT NECESSARILY
NEED TO WRITE AND YOU CAN SAY
AS IT APPLIES HERE IT DOESN'T
REALLY APPLY.
RIGHT.
AND YOU CAN SAY AS MANY TIMES
IN THE TEXT BUT JUST HOW IT
LOOKS SO YES, AN APPENDIX LIKE
YOU WERE SAYING IT MIGHT THEN
YOU'RE CONTEXT IS LIKE OK, THIS
IS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
IT'S NOT STANDARDS.
>> OK, I LIKE THAT.
OK, UM AND WE CAN DEFINITELY
SIMPLIFY AND I MEAN IN GENERAL
THE DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES
ARE ARE ARE GENERALLY GOOD IN
THE WAY THAT THEY KIND
OF EMPHASIZE THINGS THAT WE
WOULD WANT TO EMPHASIZE IN THE
DOWNTOWN.
SO IT'S NOT THEY'RE NOT CRAZY
BUT THE WAY THAT IT'S YOU KNOW
I I JUST THINK THE WAY THAT
IT'S LIKE GO TO SECTION THREE
POINT ZERO SITE CONTEXT
GUIDELINES CHAPTER TWO OF THE
DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES LIKE
THAT'S NOT NECESSARY.
IT'S NOT AND IT'S NOT IT'S NOT
USEFUL.
IT'S LIKE IT'S HARD TO USE SO.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL THAT ANSWERS A LOT
OF QUESTIONS IF WE CAN JUST
KIND OF TAKE IT OUT AND INCLUDE
IT IN ITS OWN SEPARATE THING
AND SIMPLIFY KIND OF ANYTHING
IN THE SORT OF DISTRICT
GUIDELINES THAT REFERRED TO OR
PROVIDE GUIDANCE AROUND LIKE
ROOFTOP EDITIONS SPECIFICALLY
OR JUST BOOK GENERAL.
WE'RE GENERALLY DON'T I DON'T
THINK THERE IS IF YOU'RE
THINKING OF LIKE REALLY PUTTING
A ROOFTOP THERE I MEAN THERE'S
GENERAL LANGUAGE ABOUT
ADDITIONS.
PUT AN ADDITION ON THE ROOF,
MAKE IT LOW, PUSH IT BACK.
YEAH, BUT THERE'S NOT LANGUAGE
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHERE TO PUT A
DOGHOUSE FOR THE STAIR EXIT FOR
YOUR NEW PATIO WITH A PERGOLA
AND A BAR AND A YOU YOU YEAH
BUT I COULD YOU MAKE A NOTE ON
IT TO TO LOOK AT TO DOUBLE
CHECK ROOFTOP ADDITIONS AND
ALSO WE SHOULD ADD SOMETHING
ABOUT ALICE BECAUSE EVERY ONCE
IN A WHILE WE GET THINGS ABOUT
ALICE.
YEAH TO ME IT'S MORE SO I'M
ALSO THINKING ABOUT COMMERCIAL
RESIDENTIAL THINKING OF BEAUTY
PRODUCTS IN GENERAL SO WE'RE
GOING TO SEE ALL THOSE ART
INSTALLATIONS AND THINGS.
YEAH.
AND IT'S NOT GOING TO BE VERY
LONG AS I COULD SAY MUCH BUT
YEAH I'D SAY THINGS LIKE DON'T
HURT THE HISTORIC BUILDINGS
THAT FORM THE ALLEY AND WE'RE
LIKE THE ALLEY BECAUSE I
REMEMBER THE ONE PROJECT I
CAN'T RECALL THE ADDRESS BUT
IT'S JUST LIKE OH IS THE ALLEY
IS THAT IT IS THAT LIKE
ACTUALLY A PUBLIC.
YEAH YEAH EPPERSON'S LIKE IT'S
IT'S LIKE OH YEAH IT'S THE BACK
OF THE BUILDING OUR HAS A
LESSER PRECEDENCE THAN YOU KNOW
BUT THE FACADE JUST LIKE WAIT A
MINUTE THAT'S ACTUALLY YEAH.
>> A SIGNIFICANT AREA OF THE
BUILDING AS WELL.
IT'S PUBLIC FACING AND SHOULD
BE TREATED A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENTLY I THINK A
RESIDENTIAL IN THE WAY OF A
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> AND WE SHOULD ALSO ADD
SOMETHING ABOUT MURAL'S
BEDROOM.
YOU CAN I THINK THERE'S NOTHING
ABOUT YOURSELF NO NO NO.
OH YEAH.
I CAN SEE THE IF WE NEEDED MORE
FOR THIS CHAPTER SO I'M GOING
AT IT SO ARE YOU GOING TO JUST
TRIM IT YOU THINK WELL YOU'RE
GOING TO PUT IN AN APPENDIX AND
THEN ARE YOU GOING LIKE YOU'LL
JUST BECAUSE I FEEL WE'RE NOT
GIVING YOU SPECIFICS FOR GIVING
YOU VERY GENERAL FEEDBACK BUT
IS IT ENOUGH YOU KIND OF KNOW
WHERE YOU WANT TO GO?
>> YEAH, I THINK THIS IS
PROBABLY ONE WHERE WE WE MIGHT
COME BACK AND SAY LOOK, THIS IS
WHAT WE DID.
>> DO YOU LIKE IT?
DO YOU NOT LIKE IT?
YEAH, AND I MEAN A LOT OF IT IS
JUST BULLET POINTS THAT ARE THE
DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDELINES
RIGHT?
>> YEAH, WE'LL SEE.
WELL WE'LL REFORMAT AND THEN
WE'LL COME BACK AND WHAT WHAT
WOULD COMMISSIONER SMITH SAY IF
HE WAS HERE KIND OF REPRESENTS
THE ZONING.
>> WOULD HE HAVE A COMMENT?
I JUST I WOULD RELY ON HIM
RIGHT NOW TO LET ME KNOW WHAT
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THIS?
BUT ANYWAY WE'LL CATCH TO
REWRITE.
YEAH.
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, HE'S JUST
DONE ALL THAT SO YEAH.
>> SO DAVE, DO YOU WANT TO TALK
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY OR JUST
KIND OF LEAVE IT TO THE
REORGANIZATION?
>> IT JUST YEAH.
SORT OF BOTHERED ME THAT THAT
WAS LIKE OH GOSH WE HAVE TO
WE'RE SPECIFICALLY CALLING OUT
THAT LIKE ANY HISTORIC ISSUE
WOULD TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER ANY
SUSTAINABLE ISSUE OR SOMETHING.
I DON'T KNOW.
IT JUST IT IT HIT ME WHERE IT
HURTS I GUESS YOU KNOW WHERE
IT'S LIKE WELL COME ON DO WE
HAVE TO SAY THAT LIKE SO
CLEARLY UNLESS THERE'S
SPECIFICALLY I DON'T THINK WE
DO THAT.
I AGREE BUT IT'S LIKE YEAH I
KNOW THE THE STEREOTYPE LET'S
SAY AND THERE ARE ISSUES WHERE
YOU JUST YEAH.
CLEAN WINDOWS OR SOMETHING BUT
LET'S NOT CALL IT OUT IT SEEMS
LIKE YEAH.
LET'S NOT CALL IT UNLESS
THERE'S A SPECIFIC ONE YOU KNOW
LIKE OK THIS SPECIFIC ISSUE OR
SOMETHING.
YEAH LET'S CALL THAT OUT BUT
JUST IN GENERAL LET'S NOT CALL
IT OUT BECAUSE IT'S NOT TRUE
AND SPEAKING
DOCUMENT THEIR
STAND ALONE SO THEY WILL BE
THEY WILL BE AT THE END.
>> YEAH, YEAH AND THEN THESE
ARE JUST MORE OF THE DOWNTOWN
DESIGN GUIDELINES KIND OF AS
THEY APPLY HERE
.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF THEM
THERE'S LOTS OF BUT IT'S NOT
SPECIFIC ENOUGH I GUESS TO ME.
>> MAYBE GET RIGHT INTO
CONFUSING IT FOR
THEM STILL
DOWN TO SOME OF THIS WE SHOULD
USE FROM THE OUR DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
>> YEAH.
I MEAN YOU KNOW, MAYBE THERE'S
SOMETHING WE WANT TO INCLUDE IN
APPROPRIATE OR NOT APPROPRIATE
BECAUSE THEY'RE GOOD ENOUGH TO
A GENERAL VOTE.
>> YEAH.
OK, SO THE DOWNTOWN CHARACTER
AREAS DOES THAT DOES THAT GET
CONFUSING WITH THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT?
>> YES.
YEAH I DON'T AGAIN THAT'S
GETTING INTO ZONING AND I I
THINK WE SHOULD JUST REFERENCE
IT AND SAY FOR SPECIFICS OF THE
DOWNTOWN CHARACTER AREAS.
SEE I THINK THE OTHER YEAH I
THINK THAT THERE'S ONLY LIKE I
MEAN IT'S ONLY A HANDFUL
OF PARTS SO MAYBE WE CAN
SPECIFICALLY SAY LIKE PART
OF THE LIBERTY DIVISION
CHARACTER AREA OR PART OF THE
LIBERTY STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT FALLS INTO THESE
CHARACTER AREAS.
>> SEE THAT UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE FOR DON'T WE KIND OF GET
INTO THAT IN THE IT WAS THE
FIRST OR SECOND CHAPTER AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE DOCUMENT WE
TALK ABOUT A DIFFERENT AREAS.
>> WE TALK ABOUT THE DIFFERENT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS LEAST AND
WITHIN DOWNTOWN I KNOW WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING AND
THEN IT JUST SEEMS LIKE THIS IF
IT'S ANYWHERE IT'S EITHER IN
ANOTHER APPENDIX OR IT'S IT
SEEMS REDUNDANT TO THE FRONT
OF THE DOCUMENT.
IT'S SORT OF FUNDRAISING
BECAUSE IT KIND OF SAYS SO
WE'VE GOT THESE YOU KNOW, WE
TALKED ABOUT THESE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS BUT NOW WE HAVE THESE
OTHER CHARACTER AREAS AND
THEY'RE NOT THE SAME BUT THEY
OVERLAP RIGHT.
BUT THEY'RE NOT LIKE THE THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS HAVE
SPECIFIC BOUNDARIES.
>> THIS MAIN STREET I THINK
AREA YEAH.
>> I THINK IN THAT APPENDIX
THERE MIGHT BE A PARAGRAPH OR
ANSWERS THAT SAY, YOU KNOW, BE
AWARE IN THE DOWNTOWN AND
HISTORIC DISTRICTS OVERLAP WITH
DIFFERENT DOWNTOWN CHARACTER
AREAS, SEE THE OTHER DESIGN
GUIDELINES AND THEN JUST REMOVE
THIS I THINK S PAGES BECAUSE I
REALLY I HATE TO MIX ZONING
WITH DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> I THINK THIS GETS EVEN MORE
CONFUSING BECAUSE I THINK
CHARACTER AREAS YOU THINK ARE
WAY MORE SIMILAR TO HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
>> THIS SOUNDS LIKE A STORY.
YEAH.
BECAUSE WE TALK SO MUCH ABOUT
BEING SYMPATHETIC, KEEPING WITH
THE CHARACTER OF THE CHARACTER
WORK THAT'S A LITTLE ON OK AND
WE CAN SO WE CAN DELETE ZONING
AND REFER TO ZONING FOR MORE
INFORMATION.
>> GOOD.
AND I THINK THE END OF THIS
CHAPTER IS JUST CHARACTER
AREAS.
>> YEAH GOOD.
>> SO THERE WE GO.
>> VERY NICE.
SO WE'LL TAKE OUT ALL OF THAT
AND THEN PUT SOME MORE NEW
STUFF THAT SOUNDS GOOD AND
HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE A NET LOSS
.
>> I THINK THIS IS A VERY
WORTHY CHAPTER.
IT IS AND THANK YOU FOR GOING
THROUGH IT WORD BY WORD AND
PRESUMABLY THE ENTIRE DESIGN
GUIDELINES TOO.
>> SO THANK YOU MARIJANA
.
>> ANYTHING ELSE ON DESIGN OUR
LIVES JUST GOING TO SAY
CONGRATS TO THE BOSS ON THE
COMMISSION THROUGH THE WHOLE
DOCUMENT.
>> I'LL COME BACK TO YOU WITH
THE UPDATE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> AND THAT'S IT FOR NEW
BUSINESS.
SO NOW WE'VE GOT TWO MONTHS
OF MINUTES BECAUSE WE DIDN'T
HAVE A FORUM LAST MONTH SO
WE'VE GOT APRIL AND MAY.
SO I'M ASSUMING THAT YOU ALL
LOOK AT THROUGH THOSE AND IF
THERE'S ANY CHANGES OR
CORRECTIONS LET ME KNOW RIGHT
NOW.
OK, HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTION.
>> THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
PRESENTED.
THANK YOU TO COURTNEY MANOR FOR
ALWAYS PROVIDING THOSE MINUTES
WHILE BRITTANY ALEXANDER'S
AWAY.
ANY UPDATE ON BRITTANY ARE
GOING TO BE WITHOUT BRITTANY
FOR I THINK SHE COMES BACK IN
AUGUST.
>> OK, WE'LL LOOK FORWARD TO
BRITTANY COMING BACK IN AUGUST
.
MOVING ON TO IREPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS'.
>> ARE THERE ANY REPORTS THIS
MONTH?
NO.
OK, LET'S GO TO ASSIGNMENT'S
WE'VE GOT THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
MONDAY, JULY 7TH.
IT'S A FIVE P.M. IT'S A JULY
10TH MEETING.
>> ANYONE INTERESTED I COULD TO
THANK YOU FABULOUS.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR THAT.
THAT WAS COMMISSIONER CALDERON
AND COMMISSIONER KAPLIN, I
SHOULD WARN YOU GUYS THAT WE DO
HAVE AT LEAST FIVE SITES TO
VISIT SO AND THE DEADLINE IS
NOT FOR ANOTHER WEEK.
>> WOW.
SO OK, IT'S GOING TO BE GOOD AT
LEAST THE FULL TWO HOURS PLEASE
.
>> THANK YOU AND I WON'T BE AT
THAT MEETING.
>> SO APOLOGIES TO MARIO.
>> FANTASTIC.
WELL ARE THERE REPORTS FROM
STAFF THIS MONTH?
DON'T THINK DOING A LOT
OF AIR-CONDITIONER STAFF
APPROVALS OR NOT SO MANY THIS
YEAR?
I THINK EVERYONE DID THAT
DURING COVID I I HAVEN'T
EVERYBODY VERY GOOD.
>> OK, WELL CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
ANY CONCERNS?
NO.
OK, GOOD.
>> ARE THERE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
THIS MONTH I DIDN'T SEE ANY NO.
>> OK SO IN THAT CASE WE WILL
GO TO ADJOURNMENT.
I NOW ADJOURNED THE JUNE 12TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION MEETING AT
NINE FIVE PM.
>> THANK YOU ALL